Andy: (As Bo Peep) Stop it! Stop it, you mean, old potato!
Andy: (As Mr. Potato Head.) Quiet, Bo Peep, or your sheep get run over.
(The companion porcelain sheep (later named Billy, Goat & Gruff in Toy Story 4) are placed in the center of a Hot Wheels track loop.)
Andy: (As Sheep (Billy, Goat & Gruff).) Help! Baa! Help us!
Andy: (As Bo Peep.) Oh, no, not my sheep! Somebody do something!
WOODY, a pull-string doll cowboy, enters into the scene opposite the inanimate spud.
Andy's hand pulls on the ring in the center of Woody's back.
Woody: (Voice Box) Reach for the sky!
Andy: (As Mr. Potato Head.) Oh, no, Sheriff Woody.
Andy: (As Woody) I'm here to stop you, One-Eyed Bart!
Andy's hand pulls out one of Mr. Potato Head's eyes.
Andy: (As Mr. Potato Head) Doh! How’d you know it was me?
Andy: (As Woody) Are you gonna come quietly?
Andy: (As Mr. Potato Head) You can't touch me, Sheriff! I brought my attack dog with the built-in force field!
Andy places a toy dog, with a slinky for a mid-section, in front of Mr. Potato Head and stretches him out.
Andy: (As Woody) Well, I brought my dinosaur who eats force-field dogs!
Andy reveals a plastic tyrannosaurus rex, who stomps on the Slinky Dog.
Andy: (As Dinosaur) AAAAR! ROAR-ROAR-ROAR!
Andy: (As Slinky Dog) YIPE! YIPE-YIPE-YIPE!
Andy: (As Woody) You're goin' to jail, Bart.
(Andy picks up Mr. Potato Head and places him in a baby crib in the room. A cardboard sign is taped to the bars with the word "JAIL" written in crayon.)
Andy: Say good-bye to the wife and tater tots.
Andy's 1-year-old sister, MOLLY, crawls over and picks up Mr. Potato Head. She sucks on him for a beat then proceeds to pound the toy repeatedly against the rail of her crib, forcing some of his parts loose.
Andy, wearing a cowboy hat himself, picks up Woody off the floor.
Opening Titles
Andy: (pulling Woody's string) You saved the day again, Woody!
Woody: (Voice Box) You're my favorite deputy!
BEGIN TITLES
SONG "YOU'VE GOT A FRIEND IN ME" plays while Andy does various activities with Woody:
Singer: You've got a friend in me
You've got a friend in me
-- Andy turns the Western town boxes around to reveal cows drawn on the other side.
Andy: Come on, let's wrangle up the cattle.
Singer: When the road looks rough ahead
And you're miles and miles from your nice, warm bed
(He grabs a jump rope and pretends Woody is lassoing the cattle.)
Andy: Round 'em up, cowboy!
Singer: Just remember what your old pal said
Boy, you've got a friend in me
-- Andy then rides Woody around on an RC (remote control) car and herds the remaining "cow" boxes under Molly's crib.
Andy: Yee-haw!
Singer: Yeah, you've got a friend in me
Andy: Hey, cowboy!
INT. STAIRWELL
Singer: Some other folks might be a little bit smarter than I am
Andy: Neigh!
Singer: Big and stronger too
Andy: Come on, Woody!
Singer: Maybe
-- Andy places Woody on the top of the stairwell banister allowing the doll to slide downstairs. Andy races ahead and catches him at the bottom.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS LIVING ROOM
Singer: But none of them will ever love you the way I do
It's me and you, boy
-- Andy & Woody fall into the La-Z-Boy chair and spin around and around.
Singer: And as the years go by
Andy: Whoa! Whoa!
Singer: Our friendship will never die
Andy: Whoo!
Singer: You’re gonna see it's our destiny
Next, Andy uses the La-Z-Boy foot rest as a catapult.
Singer: You've got a friend in me
Andy flings Woody across the room to the sofa.
Andy: Alright!
Singer: Yeah, you've got a friend in me
Andy: (raising his arms) Score!
Singer: You got a friend in me
SONG ENDS
Andy's Birthday
Woody lies limp on the sofa while Andy is heard talking to his mother.
Andy: (O.S.) Wow! Cool!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) What do you think?
Andy: (O.S.) Oh, this looks great, Mom!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Okay, birthday boy—
Andy: (O.S.) We saw that at the store! I asked you for it!
ANGLE: THE ADJOINING DINING ROOM
MRS. DAVIS, Andy's thirty-eight-year-old mom, has just finished decorating the area with streamers and balloons. A banner is draped across the archway. It reads: "Happy Birthday Andy."
Mrs. Davis: I hope I have enough places.
Andy: Wow, look at that! That's so-- Oh, my gosh, you got--
Mrs. Davis: One, two-- Four. Yeah, I think that's gonna be enough.
Woody's frozen face stares in the direction of the birthday decorations.
Andy: Could we leave this up till we move?
Mrs. Davis: Well, sure! We can leave it up.
Andy: Yeah!
Mrs. Davis: Now go get Molly. Your friends are gonna be here any minute.
Andy: Okay.
Andy picks up Woody from the couch and runs upstairs.
Andy: It's party time, Woody! Yeeeeeeee...haw!
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
Andy and Woody enter the room. Molly is still banging Mr. Potato Head against her crib railing. Andy tips Woody's hat at her.
Andy: Howdy, little lady.
He deposits Woody on the bed and pulls his string one last time.
Woody: (Voice Box) Somebody's poisoned the water hole!
Andy: (picking up Molly) Come on, Molly. Oh, you're getting heavy. (to Woody) See ya later, Woody.
Andy exits.
END TITLES
Woody's eyes come to life. The cowboy doll sits up, his expression changing from a smile to worry.
Woody: (to himself) Pull my string! The birthday party's today?
Woody thinks.
Meet the Toys
Woody: (to the room) Okay, everybody, coast is clear!
The bedroom comes alive. Toys emerge from the toy box, the closet, the shelves, etc... in a flurry of activity.
MR. POTATO HEAD, his body parts strewn across the floor, sits himself upright and begins to re-assemble himself.
Mr. Potato Head: Ages 3 and up. It's on my box. Ages 3 and up. I'm not supposed to be baby-sitting Princess Drool.
HAMM, the piggy bank, flips one last penny into his coin slot. Potato Head walks up to him. All his facial pieces are in the wrong slots.
Mr. Potato Head: Hey, Hamm. Look, I'm Picasso!
Hamm: I don't get it.
Hamm walks away.
Mr. Potato Head: You uncultured swine! (to someone O.S.) What are you looking' at, ya hockey puck?
Potato Head walks past, revealing a hockey puck figurine.
Woody sits on the edge of the bed observing all the activity. He turns to a plastic green army man, SARGE, standing on the night stand.
Woody: Hey, Sarge, have you seen Slinky?
Sarge: (saluting) Sir! No, sir!
Woody: Okay. Hey, thank you. At ease.
Woody hops off the bed.
Woody: Hey, uh, Slinky?
Slinky: Right here, Woody.
(A toy Slinky dog, SLINKY, appears from under the bed pushing out a checker board set. He begins to place the checkers on the board.)
Slinky: I'm red this time.
Woody: No. S-Slink--
Slinky: Oh, well, alright. You can be red if you want.
Woody: N-Not now, Slink. I got some bad news.
Slinky: Bad news?!
Woody: Shh, shh, shh!
Woody covers up Slinky's mouth, aware that the other toys in the room are watching. He leans in close to Slinky.
Woody: (whispering.) Just gather everyone up for a staff meeting and be happy.
Slinky: Got it.
Slinky shuffles off.
Woody: Be HAPPY!
Slinky perks up his gait and LAUGHS HARD.
Slinky: Ha, ha, ha, ha!
Woody proceeds in the other direction. He passes a toy robot and snake partially hidden under the bedspread.
Woody: (to the room) Staff meeting, everybody! (aside) Snake, Robot, podium duty.
Snake hides under the bed.
Robot: Hey.
Robot drags him out and they both follow Woody.
Woody walks past an Etch-A-Sketch, going the other direction.
Woody: Hey, Etch. Draw!
Both Etch and Woody whip around like gunfighters.
Before Woody can fully extend his arm out, the Etch-A-Sketch etches a gun on its screen.
Woody: (pretending to be shot) Oh!! Got me again. Etch, you've been working on that draw. Fastest knobs in the west.
Slinky passes a group of toys on the floor.
Slinky: Got a staff meeting, you guys. Come on, let's go.
Robot and Snake begin constructing a podium made out of Legos and a Tinker Toy tub while Woody searches the floor.
Woody: Now, where is that...? Oh.
Woody spots the doodle pad on the floor by the desk and walks over to it.
Woody: Hey, who moved my doodle pad way over here?
As he reaches down to pick it up...
REX, the plastic dinosaur, jumps out to scare Woody.
Rex: Roar!!!!!!
Woody: (unaffected) How are you doin', Rex?
Rex suddenly turns timid.
Rex: Were you scared? Tell me honestly.
Woody: I was close to being scared that time.
Woody heads back to the podium. Rex follows.
Rex: I'm going for fearsome here, but I just don't feel it. I think I'm just coming off as annoying.
A crook suddenly grabs Woody's neck and jerks him toward BO PEEP, the porcelain figurine.
Woody: (choking) Ow! Oh, hi, Bo. Hi.
Bo Peep: I wanted to thank you, Woody, for saving my flock.
Woody: (blushing) Oh, hey, it was, uh, nothin'.
Bo Peep: What do you say I get someone else to watch the sheep tonight?
Woody: (very flustered) Heh, heh... Oh, yeah! Uh, I...
Bo saunters back toward her lamp stand, passing a stack of ABC blocks.
Bo Peep: Remember, I'm just a couple of blocks away.
Woody is left lovestruck.
All the rest of the toys in the room are filing past Slinky.
Toy: Yodel-ay-hee-hoo! Yodel-ay-hee-hoo!
Slinky: Come on, come on. Smaller toys up front.
Woody remains lovestruck in the middle of the room.
Slinky: Hey, Woody, come on.
Woody snaps out of his trance and rushes over to the podium.
The toys crowd together as Woody steps up to the podium. Mike, a toy tape recorder, waddles up next to Woody and indicates his microphone.
Upcoming Birthdays
Mike: Ahem!
Woody: (grabbing microphone) Oh, thanks, Mike. (to the crowd) Okay --
SFX: feedback
Woody: (to Mike) Whoa, whoa. Step back.
Hamm: For crying out loud.
Mike waddles back a step to stop the feedback.
Woody: There you go. Thank you.
Woody blows in the mic to check if it’s working properly.
Woody: Hello? Check. That better? Great. Everybody hear me? Up on the shelf, can you hear me? Great. Okay. First item today: Uh... oh, yeah. Has everyone picked a moving buddy?
The toys all MOAN.
Rex: What?
Hamm: Moving buddy?! You can't be serious.
Rex: I didn't know we were supposed to have one already.
Mr. Potato Head: (waving his arm out its socket) Do we have to hold hands?
The toys LAUGH and SNICKER.
Woody: Oh yeah, you guys think this is a big joke. We've only got one week left before the move. I don't want any toys left behind. A moving buddy. If you don't have one, get one! (checking the pad) Alright, next. Uh, oh, yes. Tuesday night's plastic corrosion awareness meeting was, I think, a big success. And we want to thank Mr. Spell for putting that on for us. Thank you, Mr. Spell.
The words "You're welcome" scroll across Mr. Spell's display screen as he speaks.
Mr. Spell: You're welcome.
Woody: Okay. Uh, oh, yes. One, uh, minor note here. (under his breath) Andy's birthday party has been moved to today. (full voice) Uh, next we have...
The toys all PANIC.
Hamm: Wait a minute here!
Rex: What?! What do you mean the party's today?! His birthday's not till next week!!
Hamm: What's going' on down there? Is his mom losing' her marbles?!
Woody: Well, obviously she wanted to have the party before the move. I'm not worried. You shouldn't be worried.
Mr. Potato Head: Of course, Woody ain't worried. He's been Andy's favorite since kindergarten.
Slinky: Hey, hey. Come on, Potato Head. If Woody says it's alright, then, well, darn it, it's good enough for me.
While Slinky speaks, Potato Head takes off his mouth and mimes kissing his own butt.
Mr. Spell: Ha. Ha. Ha. Ha.
Slinky: Woody has never steered us wrong before.
Woody: Come on, guys. Every Christmas and birthday we go through this.
Rex: But what if Andy gets another dinosaur, a mean one? I just don't think I could take that kind of rejection!
Woody: Hey, listen, no one's getting replaced. This is Andy we're talking about.
Woody steps down from the podium and walks toward the crowd.
Woody: (continued) It doesn't matter how much we're played with.
The mic stops stretching, so Mike moves closer to Woody.
Woody: (continued) What matters is that we're here for Andy when he needs us. That's what we're made for, right?
Everyone is now looking down, sheepish.
Hamm: Pardon me. I hate to break up the staff meeting, but... They’re here! Birthday guests at 3:00!
Woody: Stay calm, everyone!
Rex: Aah!
Too late. The toys PANIC and stampede over Woody toward the bedroom window, leaving him alone on the floor.
Woody: Hey! Uh, meeting adjourned.
Birthday Presents
The toys all crowd around the bedroom window, trying to get a peek outside.
Hamm: Ho, boy! Will you take a look at all those presents?
Mr. Potato Head: I can't see a thing.
Unable to see over the crowd, Potato Head pulls his eyes out of his head and holds them up over the other toys.
ANGLE: TOY'S POV OF ANDY'S FRONT YARD
Children file toward the front door carrying presents.
Hamm: Yes, sir, we're next month's garage sale fodder for sure.
Rex: (panicked) Any dinosaur-shaped ones?
Hamm: Oh, for crying out loud. They're all in boxes, you idiot.
The presents keep coming.
Rex: They're getting bigger.
Slinky: Wait, there's a nice little one over there.
Child: Hi!
At first, the kid's present appears to be a little box, but then the kid turns -- the present is four feet long. The toys shriek.
Rex: Aah!
Mr. Spell: Spell: trash can.
Rex: We're doomed!
Down on the floor, Woody smacks his hand to his forehead in surrender.
Woody: Alright! Alright!
The toys turn inside and look down at Woody.
Woody: (continued) If send out the troops, will you all calm down?
Rex: Yes! Yes! We promise!
Woody: Okay! Save your batteries.
Hamm: Very good, Woody. That's using the old noodle.
Woody jumps up onto Andy's bed and turns to Sarge on the nightstand.
Woody: Sergeant, establish a recon post downstairs. Code Red! You know what to do.
Sarge: Yes, sir!
The green army man hops down to the floor where a "BUCKET O' SOLDIERS" sits.
Sarge: All right, men. You heard him. Code Red! Repeat, we are at Code Red. Recon plan Charlie. Execute! Let's move! Move, move, move, move!
The Sergeants Escape Andy's Room / Andy's Presents
The green army men file out of the bucket and march in formation across the bedroom floor.
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY
Andy's door creaks open and a lone army man ventures forth to make sure the coast is clear. Satisfied, he motions for the others to proceed. Squads of soldiers march into the hall carrying a baby monitor and a jump rope.
Child: Yeah!
The army men each leapfrog behind the stairway banisters and hold their positions while the Sergeant surveys the scene below through his binoculars.
ANGLE: SERGEANT'S BINOCULAR VIEW OF DOWNSTAIRS
Directly below, Mrs. Davis passes through the hallway rounding up Andy and all his birthday guests.
Mrs. Davis: Okay, come on, kids. Everyone in the living room. It's almost time for the presents.
Once Mrs. Davis and the children are out of sight, the Sergeant motions to his men with a silent hand signal.
TWO PARATROOPERS jump out through the railing, parachuting down to the floor below.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
The paratroopers sweep the area with their plastic rifles, then give the "all clear" sign.
The jump rope is lowered, and more soldiers rappel down.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM
Monitor Calling to Andy's Birthday Presents
The toys race toward the nightstand where Woody has placed the receiving half of the baby monitor.
Hamm: All right, gangway, gangway.
Woody: And this (turning on the baby monitor) is how we find out... what is in those presents.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY
The green army men march in formation across the floor when suddenly...
SFX: footsteps
Can be heard approaching from behind the connecting kitchen door. Immediately the Sergeant signals for his men to freeze in their various classic action poses.
Mrs. Davis: Okay, who's hungry? Here come the chips! I've got Cool Ranch and barbecue!
The door opens and Mrs. Davis' foot comes down hard on top of a soldier.
Mrs. Davis: Ow! What in the world-- Oh! I thought I told him to pick these up.
With a sweep of her foot, she brushes the army men out of her path and continues on to the living room.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM
Rex: Shouldn't they be there by now? What's taking them so long?
Woody: Hey, these guys are professionals. They're the best. Come on! They're not lying down on the job.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY
As soon as Mom is gone, the Sergeant motions for his men to proceed toward a nearby houseplant that looks into the living room.
The Sergeant then notices an injured soldier struggling to drag himself forward -- a casualty of Mrs. Davis' foot. The Sergeant helps the injured soldier to his feet.
Army Man: [moaning] G-G-Go on without me! J-Just go!
Sarge: A good soldier never leaves a man behind!
The Sergeant motions to the remaining men above. They lower themselves via jump rope, riding the baby monitor. Once downstairs, they hustle the baby monitor toward the houseplant. Suddenly...
A ball bounces into the hallway, followed by the sound of footsteps and kid clamor.
The Sergeant, supporting his wounded man, reaches the plant, right on the heels of the squad with the baby monitor. They conceal themselves in the house plant just before the children run by.
Mrs. Davis: Okay, everybody, come on. Everybody settle down. Now, kids. Everybody--
INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT - CONTINUOUS
While the baby monitor is set in place, A MEDIC evaluates the wounded soldier and gives the "thumbs up" signal.
Mrs. Davis: You sit in a circle. No, Andy. Andy, you sit in the middle there. Good. And-- Which present are you gonna open first?
The Sergeant scans the party with his binoculars.
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF BIRTHDAY PRESENTS
The pile of brightly wrapped gifts sits atop the living room coffee table.
Child: Mine!
Sarge: There they are.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM
The toys perk up as STATIC suddenly emits from the baby monitor.
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Come in, Mother Bird. This is Alpha Bravo. Come in, Mother Bird.
Woody: This is it! This is it! Quiet, quiet, quiet, quiet!
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Alright. Andy's opening the first present now.
Mr. Potato Head: (chanting) Mrs. Potato Head! Mrs. Potato Head! Mrs. Potato Head (off Rex's look) Hey, I can dream, can't I?
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) The bow's coming off. He's ripping the wrapping paper. It's a-- It's-- It's a-- a lunch box. We've got a lunch box here.
Woody: (surprised) A lunch box?!
Mr. Potato Head: Lunch box?!
Slinky: For lunch. Heh heh heh...
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Okay, second present. It appears to be-- Okay, it's bed sheets.
Mr. Potato Head: Who invited that kid?!
INT. LIVING ROOM
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF PRESENTS
MATCH DISSOLVE TO:
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF A SINGULAR PRESENT
One Last Present
Mrs. Davis: Oh. Only one left.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Okay, we're on the last present now.
Woody: Last present!
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) It's a big one. It's a-- It's a board game! Repeat, Battleship!!
Woody: Whew!
The toys CHEERING EXCITEDLY.
Rex: HOORAAAAAY!!!
Hamm: Hallelujah!! Ha-ha! Yeah, all right.
Hamm gives Potato Head a congratulatory pat on the back, sending his facial features flying.
Mr. Potato Head: Hey, watch it!
Hamm: Sorry there, old Spudhead.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT
Sarge: (to army men) Mission accomplished. Well done, men. Pack it up. We're going' home.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM
Woody: So, did I tell ya? Huh? Nothing' to worry about.
Slinky: I knew you were right all along, Woody. Never doubted ya for a second.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT
The platoon is preparing to exit the plant when...
Mrs. Davis: Wait a minute. Oh! What do we have here?!
The Sergeant lifts his binoculars back to his eyes.
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF LIVING ROOM
Mrs. Davis can be seen opening the closet and pulling out another large present.
Sarge: (indicating the baby monitor) Wait! Turn that thing back on!
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Come in, Mother Bird! Come in, Mother Bird!
All the toys tense up.
Sarge: (O.S., continued) Mom has pulled a surprise present from the closet. Andy's opening it.
INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT - CONTINUOUS
Sarge: He's really excited about this one.
Andy: Mom, what is it?
Sarge: It's a huge package. Oh, get outta the-- One of the kids is in the way. I can't see.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
(STATIC)
INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT
Sarge: It's a--
The children THINKS IT’S BUZZ LIGHTYEAR.
The toys didn’t KNOW WHAT IT IS.
Children: WOOOOW!!
The sound of children chattering emits from the monitor, cutting off Sarge.
Rex: It's a what?! WHAT IS IT?!
Rex grabs a leg of the nightstand and shakes it, making the monitor drop to the floor. The impact causes the batteries to roll out.
Rex: Oh, no!
Mr. Potato Head: Oh, ya big lizard! Now we'll never know what it is!
Hamm: (sarcastic) Way to go, Rex!
Everyone rushes to the fallen monitor. Potato Head tries to correctly insert the batteries.
Woody: No, no! Turn ‘em around! Turn ‘em around!
Hamm: He's putting' 'em in backwa-- Here, you're putting' 'em in backwards!
Woody: Plus is positive, minus is negative! Oh, let me!
Woody jumps down off the bed and shoves both Hamm and Potato Head aside.
INT. LIVING ROOM
Andy: Let's go to my room, guys!
The kids rush past the houseplant.
Sarge: (into the monitor) Red alert! Red alert! Andy is coming upstairs!
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
Woody puts the last battery back in.
Woody: There!
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Juvenile intrusion! Repeat, resume your positions now!
Woody: Andy's coming! Everybody, back to your places! Hurry!
The toys PANIC and scatter about the room.
Hamm: Get to your places! Get to your places!
Mr. Potato Head: Where's my ear? Who's seen my ear? Did you see my ear?
Rex: Out of my way! Here I come! Here I come!
Frantic, Rex slams into a trashcan and falls over.
Everyone scurries to their places as the kids' footsteps grow louder.
Woody falls limp in his spot on the bed just as...
Andy's Friends Come In to His Room and Plays With His Toys
Andy's bedroom door flies open and a flood of children's feet rush in.
Friend #1: Hey, look! His lasers light up.
Andy: Take that, Zurg!
Woody is flung off Andy's pillow and slides, unnoticed, down the gap between the bed and the back wall.
Friend #2: Quick, make a space! This is where the spaceship lands.
Andy: And you press his back and he does a karate chop action!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Come on down, guys! It's time for games! We got prizes!
Andy: Oh yeah!
The kids all run out as fast as they entered, SLAMMING THE DOOR behind them.
Meet Buzz Lightyear
The toys slowly come to life and make their way toward the bed.
Mr. Potato Head: What is it?
Bo Peep: Can you see it?
Slinky: What the heck is up there?
Rex: Woody, who's up there with ya?
Woody crawls out from under the bed. The toys are shocked to discover him there.
Slinky: Woody? What are you doing under the bed?
Woody: (composing himself) Uh, nothing'. Uh, nothing'. I'm sure Andy was just a little excited, that's all. Too much cake and ice cream, I suppose. It's just a mistake!
Mr. Potato Head: Well, that mistake is sitting in your spot, Woody.
Rex: (GASP!) Have you been replaced?
Woody: Hey. What did I tell you earlier? No one is getting replaced.
The toys give each other a look of doubt.
Woody: Now, let's all be polite and give whatever it is up there a nice, big Andy's Room welcome.
Woody climbs slowly up the side of the bed, peeking over the edge. His eyes widen at the sight of BUZZ LIGHTYEAR.
We see Buzz as Woody does - an expensive looking space age action figure, covered with buttons and stickers from head to toe. The imposing "G.I. Joe-sized" doll stands heroically in the center of the bed, his back to Woody.
Woody GULPS.
Buzz comes alive and looks around.
ANGLE: BUZZ'S POV THROUGH HIS HELMET
While he scans the bedroom a "DARTH VADER" LIKE BREATHING is heard.
Buzz eyes it all suspiciously and pushes a button on his chest.
SFX: ELECTRONIC BEEP
Buzz: Buzz Lightyear to Star Command. Come in, Star Command.
Nothing. He pushes the button again.
Buzz: Star Command, come in. Do you read me? (to himself) Why don't they answer?
Just then, Buzz catches sight of his ripped packaging. The box is designed to look like a spaceship.
Buzz: (GASP) My ship!
He runs up to the box and investigates the damage.
Buzz: Blast! This will take weeks to repair.
Buzz flips open a plastic compartment on his arm – his wrist communicator.
Buzz: Buzz Lightyear mission log, star date 4-0-7-2. My ship has run off course en route to sector 12. I've crash-landed on a strange planet. The impact must have awoken me from hyper sleep.
Buzz springs up and down on the squishy surface of the bed.
Buzz: (into communicator) Terrain seems a bit unstable.
He taps the sticker of controls on his wrist communicator.
Buzz: (into communicator) No readout yet if the air is breathable. And there seems to be no sign of intelligent life anywhere.
ANGLE: BUZZ'S POV THROUGH HIS HELMET
Buzz and Woody
Woody's face suddenly pops into view.
Woody: Hello…
Buzz: HO-YAAAHH!!
Buzz jumps back, taking a fighting stance. He presses a button on his arm that turns on a red "laser beam" light on his wrist. Buzz aims the red beam on Woody's forehead and holds it there.
Woody: Aaaaaaah! Whoa! H-Hey! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Did I frighten you? Didn't mean to. Sorry. Howdy. My name is Woody. And this is Andy's room. That's all I wanted to say. And also, there has been a bit of a mix-up. This is my spot, see, the bed here.
While Woody is speaking, Buzz notices the sheriff's badge on Woody's vest.
Buzz: (de-activating his laser beam) Local law enforcement. It's about time you got here. I'm Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger, Universe Protection Unit. My ship has crash-landed here by mistake.
Buzz begins walking around the bed, surveying the situation. Woody tries to keep up.
Woody: Yes, it is a mistake because, you see, the bed here is my spot.
Buzz: I need to repair my turbo boosters. Do you people still use fossil fuels, or have you discovered crystallic fusion?
Woody: Well, let's see. We got double-A's.
Buzz Meets Woody's Friends
Buzz: Watch yourself!
Buzz shoves Woody down on the bed and re-activates his wrist laser.
Buzz: (continued) Halt! Who goes there?
The other toys are peeking over the edge of the bed.
Rex: Don't shoot! It's okay. Friends.
Buzz: (to Woody) Do you know these life-forms?
Woody: Yes! They're Andy's toys.
Buzz: All right, everyone, you’re clear to come up.
Buzz walks over to the toys.
Buzz: I am Buzz Lightyear. I come in peace.
Rex steps forward and eagerly shakes Buzz's hand.
Rex: Oh, I'm so glad you're not a dinosaur!
Buzz: Wh- Why, thank you! (pulls away) Now, thank you all for your kind welcome!
Rex: Say, what's that button do?
Buzz: I’ll show you.
Buzz presses a button on his chest.
Buzz: (Voice Box) Buzz Lightyear to the rescue!
The toys all GASP IN AWE.
Bo Peep: Wow!
Slinky: Hey, Woody's got something like that. His is a pull string. Only it's—
Mr. Potato Head: Only it sounds like a car ran over it.
Hamm: Oh, yeah, but not like this. This is a quality sound system. Probably all copper wiring, huh? So, uh, where you from? Singapore? Hong Kong?
Buzz: Well, no. Actually, I-I'm stationed up in the Gamma Quadrant of Sector Four. As a member of the elite Universe Protection Unit of the Space Ranger Corps, I protect the galaxy from the threat of invasion from the Evil Emperor Zurg, sworn enemy of the Galactic Alliance.
As Buzz speaks, Woody glances down at the box in which Buzz arrived.
ANGLE: BACK OF BUZZ'S BOX
There is a cartoon drawing of Buzz giving the exact, word-for-word spiel that Buzz is now giving.
Mr. Potato Head: Oh, really? I'm from Playskool.
Rex: And I'm from Mattel. Well, I 'm not really from Mattel. I'm actually from a smaller company that was purchased in a leveraged buyout. Well, I don't really understand the financials, but...
Woody walks over to Bo Peep.
Woody: You'd think they’ve never seen a new toy before.
Bo Peep: Well, sure. Look at him. He's got more gadgets on him than a Swiss Army knife.
Slinky presses the button on Buzz's arm, activating his laser light. Buzz quickly pulls his arm away.
Buzz: Ah, ah, ah, ah! Please be careful. You don't want to be in the way when my laser goes off.
Mr. Potato Head: Hey, a laser! How come you don't have a laser, Woody?
Woody: It's not a laser! It's a-- It's a little light bulb that blinks.
Hamm: What's with him?
Mr. Potato Head: Laser envy.
Woody: All right, that's enough! Look, we're all very impressed with Andy's new toy.
Buzz: Toy?
Woody: T-O-Y. Toy.
Buzz: Excuse me, I-I think the word you're searching for is "Space Ranger."
Woody: The word I'm searching for I can't say because there's preschool toys present.
Mr. Potato Head: Getting' kind of tense, aren't ya?
You Can't Fly!
Rex: Oh! Uh, Mr. Lightyear, uh, now, I'm curious. What does a Space Ranger actually do?
Woody: He's not a Space RangER! He doesn't fight evil or or shoot lasers or fly!
Buzz: Excuse me.
Buzz calmly hits a button and wings pop out.
Again the toys GASP IN AWE.
Hamm: Oh, impressive wingspan! Very good!
Woody: Oh, what?! What?! These are plastic. He can't fly!
Buzz: They are a trillium-carbonic alloy, and I can fly.
Woody: No, you can't.
Buzz: Yes, I can.
Woody: You can't.
Buzz: Can.
Woody: Can't. Can't. Can't!
Buzz: I tell you, I could fly around this room with my eyes closed!
Woody: Okay, then, Mr. Light Beer, prove it.
Buzz: All right, then, I will. (to toys) Stand back, everyone!
The crowd of toys make room for Buzz as he heads toward the edge of the bed and climbs up the bedpost. He poses like a high diver, shuts his eyes...
Buzz: To infinity... AND BEYOND!!
...and leaps off the bed.
Buzz plummets straight down, hits a big rubber ball and bounces right back up.
He then lands on a Hotwheels car, which races him down the track, through the loop, and off a ramp. Buzz soars upward into a plane mobile hanging from the ceiling.
Buzz becomes wedged between the plane's wheels. The impact turns on the PLANE'S MOTOR making it (and Buzz) spin around and around.
All the other toys watch from the bed, mesmerized.
Finally, the centrifugal force causes Buzz to separate from the plane, sailing him across the room toward the bed.
Buzz makes a perfect landing right in front of Woody and then opens his eyes.
Buzz: ...can!
The crowd of toys rush Buzz, CHEERING AND MR. POTATO HEAD CLAPPING WITH ADORATION.
Rex: WHOA!! Oh, wow, you flew (Mr. Potato Head whistles) magnificently!
Bo Peep: I found my moving' buddy. (She said it again at the 4th movie.)
Buzz: Thank you. Th-Thank you all. Thank you.
Woody: That wasn't flying! That was... falling with style.
Mr. Potato Head: Man, the dolls must really go for you. (aside) Can you teach me that?
Woody stands alone at the other end of the bed, fuming. Slinky, caught up in the euphoria, approaches Woody.
Slinky: Heh, heh, heh! Golly bob howdy! (He says that all the time.)
Woody: Oh, shut up! (All the toys chattered.) You know, in a couple of days, everything will be just the way it was. They'll see. They'll see. I'm still Andy's favorite toy.
Changing Woody's Life Into Buzz's Life
MONTAGE
SONG: STRANGE THINGS plays over montage.
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - LATER
A) Andy plays with Woody: jumping up and down on the bed, running around the room.
Singer: I was on top of the world living high
It was right in my pocket
Andy: Whoa!
Singer: I was living' the life
Things were just the way they should be
B) Andy sets Woody down on the floor. Next, he "lands" Buzz Lightyear on the floor opposite Woody. Andy shoots Buzz's laser at Woody and then smacks Woody across the room as if he'd been blown away by the laser.
Singer: When from out of the sky like a bomb
Comes some little punk in a rocket
C) Andy runs into his closet wearing his cowboy hat and cowboy pajamas.
MATCH CUT TO:
Andy runs out of the closet clad in Buzz Lightyear pajamas and a homemade spaceman's helmet.
Singer: Now all of a sudden, some strange things are happening to me
Andy: Buzz Lightyear to the rescue!
D) Woody observes all the cowboy-themed items in the bedroom transform to space motif: the posters, the drawings on the wall, the pillow, the bedspread.
Singer: Strange things are happening to me
Strange things
E) Buzz watches Rex execute a WIMPY ROAR. The space ranger suggests a few tips for the dinosaur. Rex tries again, this time giving a "JURASSIC PARK" ROAR. (which is non-Disney sound effect)
Singer: Strange things are happening to me
The roar blasts Potato Head's features right off his face.
Singer: Ain't no doubt about it
F) Woody passes Etch-A-Sketch, who's sporting a portrait of Buzz.
Woody looks across the room to see Buzz combing Troll Doll's hair, chatting away like a hair dresser.
Singer: I had friends I had lots of friends
Woody angrily shakes Etch, removing Buzz's image.
G) Rocky, Snake, Troll Doll and Rex are lifting Tinkertoys as weights. Buzz works out on top of an upside-down Robot, using his feet as a treadmill.
Singer: Now all my friends are gone
And I'm doing the best I can to carry on
Potato Head attempts to lift his Tinkertoy barbell but ends up tumbling backwards, leaving his arms connected to the barbell.
Singer: I had power (Chorus) Power
H) Woody looks under the bed for Slinky, finding only the checkerboard.
Singer: I was respect (Chorus) Respect
Woody peeks around the corner of the bed to see Slinky and Robot, under Buzz's direction, setting Buzz's "ship" up on top of ABC blocks for repair.
Singer: But not anymore
And I've lost the love of the one whom I adore
In frustration, Woody kicks the checkerboard, sending the pieces flying. One of the checkers ricochets off the dresser and boomerangs into Woody's mouth.
Singer: Let me tell you about it
I) On Andy's bed, Buzz pets Slinky whose back end is stretched over to the other side where Woody sits. Slinky's wagging tail whacks Woody in the face repeatedly.
Singer: (continued) Strange things are happening to me
Woody shoves Slinky's rear end off the bed, leaving his front end no choice but to eventually follow.
J) At bedtime, Andy loads his toys into the toybox until just Woody and Buzz are left. He deliberates as to which toy to keep and which to toss into the toybox.
Singer: Strange Things
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT
Andy is sound asleep, with Buzz tucked under the covers next to him.
Singer: Strange things are happening to me
Ain't no doubt about it
Woody peeks out at them from the toybox.
Singer: Strange Things
Woody then sadly sinks back into the box, closing the lid to...
BLACK
Singer: Strange Things
END MONTAGE/SONG ENDS
Enjoying Buzz
The black screen splits horizontally to become...
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - MORNING - WOODY'S POV OF THE BEDROOM FROM THE TOY BOX
All is clear -- no sign of Andy. Woody throws open the lid of the toy box.
Woody: Finally!
He takes a couple DEEP BREATHS of fresh air, then discovers that his hat is missing.
Woody: (looking back into the toy box) Hey, who's got my hat?
(The rubber shark pops up wearing Woody's cowboy hat.)
Shark: Look, I'm Woody! Howdy, howdy, howdy!
Woody: (sarcastic) Ah-ha! Ah-ha (grabs the hat) Gimme that!
Woody leaps out of the toy box.
Buzz: (O.S.) Say there, Lizard and Stretchy Dog, let me show you something. It looks as though I've been accepted into your culture.
Woody looks up to see Buzz chatting with Rex and Slinky.
Buzz: (continued) Your chief, Andy, inscribed his name on me.
Buzz puts his foot out so that Slinky and Rex can see the sole of his boot.
The name "ANDY" is written on it in permanent marker.
Slinky and Rex: Wow!
Rex: With permanent ink too!
Buzz: Well, I must get back to repairing my ship.
Buzz walks away.
Woody looks at his foot -- "Andy" is written on it also but in a much more childish scrawl and is largely faded.
Bo Peep: (O.S.) Don't let it get to you, Woody.
Hearing Bo, Woody puts his foot back down and quickly straightens up.
Woody: (nonchalant) Uh... Let what? I don't, uh-- What do you mean? Who?
Bo Peep: I know Andy's excited about Buzz. But you know he'll always have a special place for you.
Mr. Potato Head: (walking past) Yeah, like the attic. Heh, heh…
Woody: All right, that's it!
Woody angrily marches across the room.
Across the room, Buzz's cardboard ship is still up on the ABC blocks. Buzz lies down on a skateboard and slides under the ship like a mechanic. Snake and Robot stand by waiting for instructions. Buzz's hand reaches out from under the ship.
Buzz: Hmm. Unidirectional bonding strip.
(Robot turns toward Snake who stands in readiness by a tape dispenser.)
Robot: Mr. Lightyear wants more tape.
Snake rips off a piece of tape with his mouth.
Woody approaches the skateboard, grabs hold of Buzz's foot and rolls him out from under the ship.
Woody: Listen, Light Snack, you stay away from Andy. He's mine, and no one is taking him away from me.
Buzz: What are you talking about? (to Robot) Where's that bonding strip? [beeping sound]
Buzz rolls himself back under. Woody rolls him out again.
Woody: And another thing: Stop with this spaceman thing! It's getting on my nerves!
Buzz sits up, face to face with Woody.
Buzz: Are you saying you want to lodge a complaint with Star Command?
Woody: Oh-ho, okay! Ooh, well, so you want to do it the hard way, huh?
Buzz stands up, face to face with Woody in anger.
Buzz: Don't even think about it, cowboy.
Woody: Oh, yeah, tough guy?!
(MECHANICAL WHOOSH)
Woody pushes Buzz in the chest, accidentally activating a button that makes the spaceman's helmet open.
Buzz grabs his neck, gasping for air. He drops to his knees and begins to writhe on the ground, holding his breath.
(GASPS) (CHOKING)
Woody is unsure how to react.
(CHOKING CONTINUES) (PANTING, SNIFFING)
Suddenly, Buzz sniffs the air.
Buzz: The air isn't... toxic.
Buzz rises and points an accusing finger at Woody.
Buzz: How dare you open a spaceman's helmet on an uncharted planet! My eyeballs could have been sucked from their sockets!
Buzz closes his helmet.
Woody: You actually think you're the Buzz Lightyear? [laughing] Oh, all this time I thought it was an act! (to the room) Hey, guys, look! It's the real Buzz Lightyear!
Buzz: You're mocking me, aren't you?
Woody: Oh, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. (pointing behind Buzz) Buzz, look, an alien!
Buzz: Where?!
Buzz falls for the trick and turns around.
Woody kneels over with LAUGHTER.
Explosion
SFX: DOG BARKING
Woody stops short. All the toys look to the bedroom window.
Sid: (O.S., laughing) Yes! Ah, ha, ha, ha!
Slinky: Whoa! (hides under the bed.)
Woody: Uh-oh.
Slinky: It's Sid!
Sid: Don't move!
Rex: I thought he was at summer camp.
Hamm: They must have kicked him out early this year.
The toys rush over to the window.
Rex: Oh, no, not Sid!
Sid: (O.S., grunting) Incoming!
From out the window, SID PHILLIPS, a hyperactive ten-year-old, and his dog, SCUD, can be roughly made out jumping around in their backyard.
A tiny figure stands isolated in the center of the yard. Sid pummels the figure with rocks while Scud strains at his leash, barking wildly.
Mr. Potato Head: Who is it this time?
Woody: I-- I can't-- I can't tell. Hey, where's Lenny?
Lenny: (O.S.) Right here, Woody.
Woody turns to see, LENNY, a pair of wind-up binoculars, approaching him from the other end of the desk. Woody picks Lenny up and looks through him to survey the scene.
Rex: Oh, no, I can't bear to watch one of these again.
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF SID'S BACKYARD
A full-size toy soldier is posed in a running stance in the center of the backyard. A huge M-80 is strapped to the doll's back with masking tape.
Sid: (O.S.) (plays under the next 6 lines.) Just stay where you are, Corporal! I know you're tired! I know your leg is cramping, but you can't move! Don't move, Carl! You'll blow up! Do you hear me?
Woody: Oh, no, it's a Combat Carl.
Buzz breaks through the crowd.
Buzz: What's going on?
Woody: Nothing that concerns you spacemen; just us toys.
Buzz: I'd better take a look anyway.
Buzz grabs Lenny from Woody and looks through him.
Buzz: Why is that soldier strapped to an explosive device?
Woody: (redirecting Buzz's view.) That's why: Sid.
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF THE DOG, SCUD
Buzz: Hmm, sure is a hairy fellow.
Woody: No, no, that's Scud, you idiot.
Again, Woody readjusts Buzz's view.
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF SID
He is sporting a skull t-shirt and LAUGHING HIDEOUSLY.
Woody: That is Sid!
Buzz: You mean that happy child?
Mr. Potato Head: That ain't no happy child.
Rex: He tortures toys, just for fun!
Buzz: Well, then we've got to do something.
Buzz steps up onto the window ledge. The toys GASP IN SHOCK.
Bo Peep: What are you doing? Get down from there!
Buzz: I'm gonna teach that boy a lesson.
Woody: Yeah, sure. You go ahead. Melt him with your scary laser.
Woody presses Buzz's laser button. It emits a WIMPY ELECTRONIC BEEP. Buzz quickly pulls his arm away.
Buzz: Be careful with that! It's extremely dangerous.
While Woody and Buzz banter, Lenny witnesses Sid lighting the fuse of the M80.
Lenny: He's lighting it! He's lighting it!
Sid: (O.S.) No! Carl!
Lenny: Hit the dirt!
The toys jump away from the window.
Buzz: Look out!
(EXPLOSION)
Dirt clouds and toy shrapnel rain down along the side of Andy's house.
Sid: Yes! He's gone! He's history! Whoo!
Andy's toys peek over the window sill.
ANGLE: SID'S YARD
A large black scorch mark is all that remains where Combat Carl once stood. Sid jumps up and down victoriously while Scud resumes his BARKING.
Buzz: I could have stopped him.
Woody: Buzz, I would love to see you try. (gesturing to Sid's yard) Of course, I would love to see you as a crater.
Sid CACKLES and dances around the crater.
Bo Peep: The sooner we move, the better.
Sid: Yeah!
Don't Count On It!
DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. ANDY'S FRONT YARD - SUNSET
A "FOR SALE" real estate sign stands in the front yard. Another sign reading "SOLD" hangs from the bottom.
INT. UPSTAIRS HALL/ANDY'S BEDROOM
Mom opens the door to Andy's room and steps in. The room is full of packing boxes, most of them half full. Andy is playing with Woody and Buzz.
Andy: (O.S.) To infinity and beyond!
Mrs. Davis: Oh, all this packing makes me hungry. What would you say to dinner at, oh, Pizza Planet?
Andy: Pizza Planet?! Oh, cool!
Andy throws the two toys on his desk with Buzz landing right on top of Woody.
Mrs. Davis: Go wash your hands, and I'll get Molly ready.
The minute the door is closed Woody comes alive and shoves Buzz off of him.
Andy: (O.S.) Can I bring some toys?
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) You can bring one toy.
Andy: (O.S.) Just one?
Woody perks up with concern.
Woody: (to himself) One toy?
He glances over his shoulder at Buzz, who is walking away toward the opposite end of the desk.
Buzz: Hmm.
Woody picks up a Magic 8 Ball left beside him on the desk. With his back to Buzz, Woody quietly shakes the 8 ball.
Woody: (whispering) Will Andy pick me?
He tips the 8 ball over. The triangular oracle floats up to the surface. Its prediction reads: DON'T COUNT ON IT.
Woody: "Don't count on it"?! Oh!!
Woody throws down the 8 ball in disgust. It rolls across the desk and falls behind it with a loud thud.
SFX: thud
Woody suddenly becomes interested in the back of the desk and peers down it.
ANGLE: BACK OF THE DESK
The 8 ball is wedged way down near the bottom. The space is a black chasm, dark and deep, just big enough to fit...a toy.
Knocking Buzz Off The Window
Woody looks across the desk at Buzz.
He is HUMMING TO HIMSELF as he forages through Andy's pen/pencil tray looking for "tools" to repair his ship with.
Buzz: Mmm!
Right behind Buzz sits the RC CAR.
It rests on the desktop, pointing in the direction where the 8 ball fell, with the remote laying by its side.
Woody smiles for a beat and then runs in a panic over to Buzz.
Woody: BUZZ!!! Oh, Buzz! Buzz Lightyear! Buzz Lightyear, thank goodness! We've got trouble!
Buzz: Trouble?! (looking around) Where?!
Woody: (pointing to the back of the desk) Down there! Just down there! A helpless toy, it's-- it's trapped, Buzz!
Buzz: Then we've no time to lose!
Buzz runs over and looks down the back of the desk.
Buzz: I don't see anything!
Woody picks up the remote for the RC Car and switches it on. RC's eyes (headlights) open sleepily.
Woody: Oh, he's there! Just, just keep looking!
Woody hits the "FORWARD" button on the remote and steers the RC Car straight for Buzz.
Buzz: What kind of toy--
Buzz turns to see RC headed straight for him. He dives out of the way as the RC Car SMASHES into the base of A BULLETIN BOARD.
The impact forces pushpins to fly out of the board. Buzz ducks as pins land all around him, sticking into the desk like arrows.
POTATO HEAD sits on the floor in the midst of a card game with Hamm.
He looks up at the desk and GASPS in horror as the bulletin board slams down onto A GLOBE.
knocking it out of its stand. The globe starts rolling right at Buzz.
Woody stands frozen in disbelief at the chaos he's created.
Buzz runs along the desk, the globe rolling right behind him, Indiana Jones style. Buzz gets stuck "log rolling" on a pile of pencils, but at the last second jumps out of the way onto the window ledge.
Buzz: Oh! Whoa, whoa! Oh!
The globe lumbers past Buzz and strikes a Luxo-style desk lamp. The arm of the lamp swings all the way around, barely missing Woody...
...and knocks Buzz out the window with a Wilhelm scream. The toys scream in horror.
Toys: BUZZ!!
Rex: Wah!
Woody: Buzz!
Woody looks out the window. No sign of Buzz. All the other toys rush over to the sill.
Slinky: I don't see him in the driveway.
Rex: Did you see what happened?
Slinky: I think he bounced into Sid's yard!
Woody backs away from the COMMOTION, unnoticed.
Rex: Oh! Buzz!
RC Car: (electric motor sounds) Whirrr! Whirrrr-whirrrr!
Rex looks over at RC. The remote-control car is bouncing up and down excitedly.
Rex: Hey, everyone, RC's trying to say something.
The toys turn from the window to RC.
Rex: (leaning down close to RC) What is it, boy?
RC Car: (electric motor sounds) Whirrr! Whirrr! Whirrrrrr!
Mr. Potato Head: (becomes angry) He's saying that this was no accident.
Toys: Huh?
Bo Peep: What do you mean?
Mr. Potato Head: I mean Humpty Dumpty was pushed...
Slinky: No!
Mr. Potato Head: (pointing at Woody furiously) ...by Woody!
Toys: WHAT?
The toys turn to Woody who suddenly realizes how this looks.
Woody: Wait a minute. You-- You don't think I meant to knock Buzz out the window, do you? Potato Head?
Mr. Potato Head: That's Mr. Potato Head to you, you back-stabbing murderer!
The toys GASP at Woody.
Woody: Now, it was an accident, guys. Come on. Now, you, you got to believe me.
Slinky: We believe ya, Woody. Right, Rex?
Rex: Well, ye... N... (backing away) I don't like confrontations!
Sarge pops out of the army bucket next to Woody.
Sarge: Where is your honor, dirt bag?! You are an absolute disgrace! You don’t deserve to-- Hey!!
Woody seals the lid back on the bucket.
Potato Head starts closing in on Woody.
Mr. Potato Head: You couldn't handle Buzz cutting in on your play time, could you, Woody? Didn't want to face the fact that Buzz just might be Andy's new favorite toy. So, you got rid of him? Well, what if Andy starts playing with me more, Woody, huh? You gonna knock me outta the window too!?
Potato Head has driven Woody back to the very edge of the desk -- trapped.
Hamm: I don't think we should give him the chance.
Suddenly, the lid pops off the bucket of army men.
Sarge: There he is, men! Frag him!!!
The army men yell charge and pounce on Woody, while all the rest of the toys close in.
Mr. Potato Head: Let's string him up by his pull-string!
Hamm: I got dibs on his hat!
Bo Peep: Would you boys stop it!
Hamm: Tackle him!
Woody: No, no, no! W-W-Wait?!
Bo Peep: Boys, stop it!
Woody: I can explain everything!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Andy, c'mon!
Andy: (O.S.) Okay, Mom, be right down. I've got to get Buzz.
Sarge: Retreat!
The toys all drop Woody and rush back to their places.
I Gotta Find Buzz
Andy enters the room and heads straight for the desk where Woody is lying. Andy overlooks Woody and begins searching around the room.
Andy: Mom, do you know where Buzz is?
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) No, I haven't seen him.
Woody painfully watches as Andy searches in vain for Buzz.
Mr. Potato Head: (O.S.) Psst!
Woody looks across the room.
Potato Head and Etch-A-Sketch peek out of a packing box. Etch-A-Sketch scribbles a hangman's noose while Potato Head points an accusing finger in Woody's direction.
Woody GULPS.
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Andy, I'm heading out the door!
Andy: But, Mom, I can't find him!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Honey, just grab some other toy. Now, come on!
Andy: Oh, okay.
He grabs Woody and walks out of the room.
EXT. ANDY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
Andy exits the house dragging Woody as he heads toward the family van in the driveway.
Andy: I couldn't find my Buzz. I know I left him right there.
Mrs. Davis: Honey, I'm sure he's around. You’ll find him.
A BUSH next to the van begins to rustle. Hands part the foliage, revealing Buzz. He eyes Woody going into the van and does a slow burn.
The van ENGINE STARTS UP. Buzz races out of the bush, and with a mighty leap, grabs the rear fender of the van as it pulls out of the driveway.
ANGLE: SIDE OF ANDY'S HOUSE
A chain of monkeys falls into view, dangling a considerable distance above the ground.
EXT. ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW - CONTINUOUS
No More Monkeys?
The rest of Andy's toys have regrouped at the window, supervising the lowering of the "monkey chain."
Slinky: It's too short! We need more monkeys!
Rex: (holding up an empty barrel) There aren't any more! That's the whole barrel!
Rex throws the barrel down and runs back to the ledge.
Rex: (yelling out window) Buzz, the monkeys aren't working! We're formulating another plans! Stay calm! Oh, where could he be?
Gas Station / Planet Fight
EXT. GAS STATION - LATER
The Davis' family van pulls up to one of the pumps.
INT. VAN - CONTINUOUS
Andy sits in the rear seat with Woody lying next to him.
Andy: Can I help pump the gas?
Mrs. Davis: Sure! I'll even let you drive.
Both Mrs. Davis and Andy exit the van while baby Molly sleeps up front in her car seat.
Andy: (O.S.) Yeah?!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Yeah, when you're 16.
Andy: (O.S., sarcastic) Yuk, yuk, yuk! Funny, Mom.
With Mom and Andy out of range, Woody comes to life. He stares out the sun roof, still reeling from everything.
Woody: Aw, great. How am I gonna convince those guys it was an accident?
Suddenly, Buzz appears over the edge of the sun roof.
Woody: Buzz!
Buzz jumps down on the back seat to face Woody. He is furious.
Woody: Buzz! Ha! You're alive! This is great! Oh, I'm saved! I'm saved. Andy will find you here; he'll take us back to the room; and then you can tell everyone that this was all just a big mistake.
While Woody speaks, he removes the fly from Buzz's helmet and rubs it over.
Woody: (continued) Huh? Right?
No response from Buzz. Just an angry stare.
Woody: (weakly) Buddy?
Buzz: I just want you to know that even though you tried to terminate me, revenge is not an idea we promote on my planet.
Woody: Oh. Well, that's good.
Buzz: (getting in Woody's face) But we're not on my planet, are we?
Woody: No.
Buzz lunges for Woody. The two toys fly off the seat and out the open side door of the van.
EXT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
Woody and Buzz hit the ground and roll under the van, locked in mortal combat.
Woody: Okay, come on! You want a piece of me?!
Buzz lands a punch that sends Woody's head spinning around.
Woody lunges with all his might. He smacks Buzz in the face, making it SQUEAK with every blow.
Buzz closes his helmet on Woody's hand.
Woody: Owwwww!!!
Woody pounds on Buzz's chest with his free hand, activating BUZZ'S SAMPLED VOICE buttons.
Buzz: (Voice Box) Buzz--Buzz--Buzz Lightyear to the rescue!
Woody: Aah-ouch!
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Next stop…
Andy: (O.S.) Pizza Planet! Yeah!
The toys stop fighting. Before they can react...
SFX: CAR DOOR SLAM
The van drives off.
Woody: (gasps) Andy!
Woody starts to run in the direction of the van, but it drives out of sight, leaving Buzz and Woody stranded.
Woody: Wh-- Doesn't he realize that I'm not there? (LOUD GASP!) I'm LOST! (He sobs.) I'm a lost toy!
(Woody sobs. Meanwhile, Buzz checks the surroundings. He flips open his wrist communicator.)
Buzz: Buzz Lightyear mission log. The local sheriff and I seem to be at a huge refueling station of some sort.
Woody whips around, his expression changing from panic to seething anger.
He charges at Buzz.
Woody: YOU!
SFX: LOUD TRUCK HORN
Just then the toys are bathed in the headlight beams of a behemoth tanker truck pulling into the station.
Buzz dives off to the side while Woody collapses right where he stands on the pavement. The truck ROARS over him.
A GIGANTIC TIRE stops just millimeters from Woody's nose.
You Are A Toy!
Petrified, Woody inches away from the tire, moving back under the truck until he bumps into Buzz.
Buzz: (into wrist communicator) According to my Nava-computer, the—
Woody: (snapping) Shut up! Just shut up, you idiot!!
Buzz: Sheriff, this is no time to panic.
Woody: This is the perfect time to panic! I'm lost, Andy is gone, they’re gonna move from their house in two days, and it's all your fault!!
Buzz: (shocked and infuriated) My— My fault?! If you hadn't pushed me out of the window in the first place--
Woody: Oh, yeah? Well, if YOU hadn't shown up in your stupid little cardboard spaceship and taken away everything that was important to me—
Buzz: Don't talk to me about importance! Because of YOU the security of this entire universe is in jeopardy!
Woody: What?! What are you talkin' about?!
Buzz walk to the edge of the truck tire and points up to the stars.
Buzz: Right now, poised at the edge of the galaxy, Emperor Zurg has been secretly building a weapon with the destructive capacity to annihilate an entire planet! I, alone, have information, that reveals this weapon's only weakness. (pointing at Woody.) And you, my friend, are responsible for delaying my rendezvous with Star Command!
Woody explodes.
Woody: (screaming with rage) YOU... ARE... A... TOY!!!!! You aren't the real Buzz Lightyear! You're a-- Oh, you’re an action figure! You are a child's plaything!
Buzz: You are a sad, strange little man; and you have my pity. Farewell. (he walks off.)
Woody: Oh, yeah!? Well, good riddance, ya loony!
Woody walks away in the opposite direction.
Spaceship
Woody: (to himself sarcastically) "Rendezvous with Star Command."
SFX: SCREECHING TIRES FOLLOWED BY GAS STATION BELL
Pizza Deliverer: (O.S.) Hey, gas dude!
Attendant: (O.S.) You talking' to me?
Pizza Deliverer: (O.S.) Yeah, man. Can you help me here? Do you know where Cutting Boulevard is?
Attendant: (O.S.) Just a moment.
Woody looks in the direction of the bell. His face lights up at the sight of A PIZZA PLANET DELIVERY TRUCK.
Woody: (to himself) Pizza Planet? Andy!
Woody takes a step forward and then stops.
Woody: Oh, no! I can't show my face in that room without Buzz.
Woody runs back under the tanker truck. Buzz is at the far end of the truck, walking away from Woody.
Woody: Buzz! Buzz, come back!
Buzz: (continuing to walk away) Go away!
Woody: No! Buzz, you got to come back! I--
Woody looks back at the delivery truck in desperation and then eyes...

ANGLE: DELIVERY TRUCK ROOF SIGN
Atop the truck is a rocket with the Pizza Planet logo.
Woody: I found a spaceship!
Buzz stops walking away and looks back at Woody.
Woody: It's a spaceship, Buzz!
(EXT. GAS STATION - A FEW MINUTES LATER.)
Pizza Planet Truck
(The delivery truck's engine has stalled and is off.)
Pizza Deliverer: (O.S.) Come on, man, hurry up! Um, like, the pizzas are getting cold here!
Attendant: (O.S.) Uh, Cutting Boulevard, huh?
Pizza Deliverer: (O.S.) Yeah, yeah. Which way?
(Woody and Buzz eye the parked delivery truck from within the safety of a nearby oilcan display.)
Buzz: Now, you're sure this space freighter will return to its port of origin once it jettisons its food supply?
Woody: Uh-huh. And when we get there, we'll be able to find a way to transport you home.
Buzz: Well, then, let's climb aboard.
(Buzz makes a beeline for the passenger side door of the pizza truck. Woody chases after him.)
Woody: No, no, no, wait, Buzz! Buzz! Let's get in the back. No one will see us there.
Buzz: Negative. There are no restraining harnesses in the cargo area. We'll be much safer in the cockpit.
Woody: Yeah, Bu--
(In a flash, Buzz has scaled the front tire, grabbed the rear-view mirror, and swung himself up and into the cab.)
Woody: (loud whisper) Buzz! Buzz!
Pizza Deliverer: (O.S.) That's two lefts and a right, huh?
Attendant: (O.S.) Yeah.
Pizza Deliverer: (O.S.) Thanks for the directions, okay?
Attendant: (O.S.) Yeah. And remember, kid--
Woody: (loud whisper) Buzz!
SFX: ENGINE STARTING
Woody runs around to the back of the truck, scrambles up the bumper and throws open the back hatch to climb inside.
Woody lets out a YELL, as the back-hatch slams back down on his rear, sending him flying into the bed of the truck.
INT. PIZZA PLANET DELIVERY TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Woody peeks through the dividing window into the cab.
Buzz is hidden from THE PIZZA DRIVER's view by a stack of pizzas in their insulated covers. Buzz prudently fastens his safety belt.
Woody: Safer in the cockpit than the cargo bay. What an idiot!
The driver shifts into gear and hits the gas, propelling Woody to the back of the truck.
The pizza deliverer drives like a maniac, taking sharp turns and hills at high speeds. Woody is helplessly thrown around the truck. With every blow, Woody YELPS in pain.
The truck climbs a steep hill. Woody looks up and is just in time to see A LARGE TOOL BOX barreling toward him and screams.
Woody: AAAHHH!!!
BAM!!!
Welcome to Pizza Planet
CUT TO:
A STAR-FILLED BLACK NIGHT SKY
We MOVE DOWN to reveal...
EXT. PIZZA PLANET - NIGHT
The delivery truck barrels into the parking lot and parks.
INT. DELIVERY TRUCK - CAB - CONTINUOUS
Male Voice Over Speaker: Next shuttle lift off is scheduled for T-minus 30 minutes and counting.
After the driver leaves the truck, Buzz peeks out from the passenger window.
ANGLE: THE FRONT ENTRANCE
Two imposing animatronic robots guard the doorway. As CUSTOMERS approach the front, the guards part their crossed "pizza spears," allowing the patrons to enter.
Robot Guards: You are clear to enter. Welcome to Pizza Planet.
Female Voice Over Speaker: The white zone is for immediate pizza--
Excited, Buzz pries open the window between the cab and truck bed.
Buzz: Sheriff?
Woody is gone. Just the toolbox and strewn trash.
Buzz: (continued) Sheriff?
The toolbox falls on its side revealing Woody. He peels off the back of the truck and falls into a pile of trash.
Buzz: There you are. Now, the entrance is heavily guarded. We need a way to get inside.
Woody rises from the trash with a "MEGA-GULP" cup on his head.
Buzz: Great idea, Woody. I like your thinking'.
Finding Andy
EXT. PIZZA PLANET - FRONT ENTRANCE
In the f.g. sits a trashcan with fast food containers littered around it. MORE CUSTOMERS approach the "guarded" entrance.
Robot Guards: You are clear to enter. Welcome to Pizza Planet.
The front doors automatically swing open as the people pass through. Suddenly two pieces of trash -- a burger container and "MEGA-GULP" cup stand up.
Buzz: (in burger container.) NOW!
The two disguised toys make a dash through the closing doors.
Buzz: (in container.) Quickly, Sheriff! The air lock is closing.
INT. PIZZA PLANET - FRONT ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS
Female Voice Over Speaker: Jones, party of five, your shuttle is now boarding--
Woody and Buzz just make it inside but then freeze immediately as a GROUP OF KIDS run past, forcing the toys to pose as discarded trash.
Kids: Hey, Mom, can we have some tokens?
Once the coast is clear, Woody and Buzz resume walking. Buzz bumps into Woody.
Woody: (using straw as periscope) Ow! Watch where you're going!
Buzz: (mouthing with burger box.) Sorry.
They sneak in between two long rows of video games and throw off their disguises. They then take a good look at THE ARCADE.
Male Voice Over Speaker: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.
(The space-themed arena is filled with hordes of children playing video games. A sea of HI-TECH SOUNDS and lights overwhelm the place.)
(Buzz is beaming with hope.)
Buzz: What a spaceport! Good work, Woody.
(Woody is busy looking at all the children in the arcade, but none of the kids look familiar to him. Just then he hears...)
Andy: (O.S.) Mom, can I play Black Hole? Please, please, please?
(Woody turns around and through the video games he spots ANDY standing with Mom and Molly in her stroller.)
Woody: (to himself.) Andy!
Andy: Oh, it's so cool!
The family begins to walk away.
Buzz: Now, we need to find a ship that's headed for Sector 12.
Buzz is about to head off in the opposite direction when Woody grabs him and quickly pulls him down the video corridor.
Woody: Wait a minute. No, no, no, Buzz! This way. There's a special ship. I just saw it.
Buzz: You mean it has hyper drive?
Woody: Hyperactive hyper drive. And Astro, uh, turf!
The toys manage to get ahead of Andy. Woody peeks around the corner of one of the video games and waits for Mom and Andy to approach.
Woody: (tracking Andy and family) Come on. Come on. That's it.
Buzz: Where is it? I-I don't see the--
Buzz stops short at the sight of A CRANE GAME.
It is modeled to look like a spaceship ready to launch.
Crane Game
Buzz: (continued) Spaceship!
Woody: Alright, Buzz, get ready. And--
Buzz heads for the crane game, but Woody does not notice, his eyes locked on the approaching stroller.
Andy: ...until the universe explodes!
Woody: Okay, Buzz, when I say go, we're gonna jump in the basket.
Woody turns and realizes Buzz is gone. He looks across the way just in time to see Buzz leap into the crane game through the "PRIZE" slot.
Woody: Buzz!
Woody turns back in the direction of the stroller.
It has already gone past.
Woody: Doh! No!
Andy: Hey, Mom, if I eat all my pizza, can I have some alien slime?
Woody: This cannot be happening to me!
Woody runs toward the crane game but is forced to hold back for a moment as some SCREAMING children pass by.
INT. CRANE GAME
Buzz climbs over the partition that divides the deposit slot from the prize toys and leaps into a pile of LITTLE GREEN SQUEEZE TOY ALIENS.
There are hundreds of them, all identical and way too cute.
Little Green Man #1: (excited) A stranger!
LGM #2: From the outside!
LGMs: Oooooooooohhh...
Buzz: Greetings. I am Buzz Lightyear. I come in peace.
The squeeze toys rush Buzz like JABBERING excited children.
EXT. CRANE GAME
Male Voice Over Speaker: Before your space journey, re-energize yourself with a slice of pepperoni, now boarding at counter three.
With the kids gone, Woody crosses the aisle to the crane game and dives through the prize slot.
INT. CRANE GAME - CONTINUOUS
Woody clambers up the side of the deposit slot.
Buzz: (O.S.) This is an intergalactic emergency. I need to commandeer your vessel to Sector 12.
Woody peeks over the partition to witness Buzz surround by the cute alien toys.
Buzz: (continued; to the aliens.) Who's in charge here?
All the aliens point upward.
LGMs: The cla-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-w...
Woody and Buzz look up.
ANGLE: CRANE GAME CLAW
It dangles directly above the toys.
LGM #3: The claw is our master.
LGM #4: The claw chooses who will go and who will stay.
Woody: (to himself.) This is ludicrous.
Sid!
Sid: Hey, bozo, you got a brain in there? Take that!
Woody GASPS at the recognition of Sid's voice. He turns to see Sid heading straight for the crane game.
Woody: Oh, no! Sid!
Woody leaps off the partition and tackles Buzz, pushing the two of them deep into the pile of aliens.
Woody: Get down!
Sid approaches the crane game and fishes quarters out of his pants pocket.
Buzz: What's gotten into you, Sheriff? I was –
Woody: (loud whisper rudely) YOU are the one that decided to climb into this--
LGM #5: Shh! The claw, it moves.
ANGLE: CLAW
It moves into position and hovers directly above the area where Woody and Buzz are hiding.
The crane drops and grabs hold of the alien toy that is right on top of Buzz.
LGM #6: (whispering excitedly) I have been chosen!
Positioned with his back to Sid, the alien is lifted up by the claw.
LGM #6: (continued) Farewell, my friends! I go on to a better place.
Sid: Gotcha!
With the alien gone, Buzz's upper torso becomes exposed, forcing the space ranger to freeze. Sid suddenly spots Buzz.
Sid: A Buzz Lightyear?! No way!
Woody, still hidden, frantically looks around for some way to escape. Behind him, through the aliens, he eyes A SMALL REPAIR DOOR.
Woody swims through the alien squeeze toys toward the door. He grabs hold of the locking latch and, after a few attempts, is able to pry the door open.
The shadow of the crane lines up over Buzz, lowers, and grabs his head.
Woody GASPS
Sid: Yes!
(The claw begins to lift Buzz up.)
Woody: Buzz! NO!
Woody grabs hold of Buzz's feet.
Woody and the claw begin to have a tug-of-war with Buzz.
Woody pulls down hard, forcing Buzz to sink into the pile of aliens, out of Sid's view.
Sid: (slamming his fist against the glass) Hey!!
Still tugging against the crane, Woody is almost out the door with Buzz. Just then, the aliens at the bottom of the pile pull Buzz and Woody back inside.
LGM #7: He has been chosen!
LGM #8: He must go.
Woody: Hey! What are you doing?
LGMs: He must go! Do not fight the claw! Do not anger the claw! He has been chosen.
Woody: Stop it! Stop it, you zealots!
Woody and Buzz are pushed up to the surface and into the air, dangling lifelessly in front of Sid.
Sid: Alright! Double prizes!
Woody and Buzz are dropped into the prize door slot and snatched up by Sid.
Sid: (looking at his two new toys) Let's go home and... play. Ha-ha-ha.
ANGLE: CLOSEUP OF SKULL ON SID'S T-SHIRT
Sid's House
MATCH DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. SID'S HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT
From out of the darkness appears Sid on his skateboard. He is HUMMING to rock music from his walkman while carrying his backpack in his hand.
Sid leaps off the skateboard and walks up the front path toward the front door.
Through the open zipper, Buzz peeks out of the backpack to see Sid's house. He recognizes Andy's house next door.
INT. BACKPACK - CONTINUOUS
Buzz, Woody and a squeeze toy alien are scrunched up in the backpack.
Buzz: Sheriff, I can see your dwelling from here. You’re almost home.
LGM: Nirvana is coming. The mystic portal awaits.
Woody: (to Alien) Will you be quiet? (to both) You guys don't get it, do you? Once we go into Sid's house, we won't be coming out.
ANGLE: TOYS' POV FROM OUT BACKPACK
The front door opens to reveal Scud. The dog lunges straight for the backpack, BARKING.
Sid: Whoa, Scud! Hey, boy! Sit! Good boy.
The dog begrudgingly obeys.
Sid: Hey, I got something for you, boy.
Sid's hand reaches into the backpack.
Woody: (loud whisper) Freeze!
The toys go still. Sid's hand grabs the alien out of the backpack. The alien is then placed sideways along Scud's snout.
Sid: Ready, set, now!
In one quick motion, Scud flips the alien up, catches it in his mouth, and rabidly shakes it back and forth.
Buzz and Woody react in horror.
Janie Unfixed
Sid: Hannah! Hey, Hannah!
Woody and Buzz glance up to see HANNAH, Sid's frail little sister, carrying her Janie Doll.
Hannah: What?
Sid: Did I get my package in the mail?
Hannah: I don't know.
Sid: What do you mean you don't know?
Hannah: (insistent) I don't know!
Sid: (mock concern) Oh, no, Hannah! Look, Janie!
Hannah: What?
He grabs the doll.
Hannah: (continued) Hey!
Sid: She's sick!
Hannah: (panicked) No, she's not!
Sid: I'll have to perform one of my… operations!
Sid bolts upstairs with Hannah in pursuit.
Woody: No. Not Sid's room. Not there.
Hannah: No! Don’t touch her! No!
INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - CONTINUOUS
Sid races to his bedroom door. Hannah is right behind.
Hannah: Sid, give her back!
Sid just LAUGHS. He charges into the room and slams the door in his sister's face.
INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Hannah: (O.S., pounding on his door) Sid! Sid!
Sid carelessly tosses the backpack on the bed and walks over to a makeshift workbench.
Sid: (as Doctor) Oh, no, we have a sick patient here, Nurse. Prepare the O.R., stat!
Sid CLICKS on a bare bulb dangling above his "operating table."
Woody and Buzz look on from the safety of the backpack as Sid places the Janie doll's head in a vise.
Hannah: (O.S.) Sid, give her back! Give her back now! I'm telling!
Sid: (as Doctor) Patient is... (straining while tightening vise) prepped.
Sid grabs a painter's mask from his tool chest and dons it like a surgeon's mask.
Sid: (as Doctor) No one's ever attempted a double bypass brain transplant before.
Sid grabs a toy pterodactyl from a nearby crate full of junk.
Sid: (as Doctor) Now for the tricky part. Pliers!
Buzz: (whispering to Woody) I don't believe that man's ever been to medical school.
Sid struggles for a moment with his "patient" then stops.
Sid: [chuckles, imitates nurse] Doctor, you've done it! (running to the door) Hannah!
He opens the door. Hannah is standing there, looking worried.
Sid: (continued) Janie's all better now.
He hands her Janie -- her head has been replaced with a pterodactyl's. Hannah shrieks at the sight of the monstrosity and bolts down the hallway.
Hannah: MOM!! MOM!!
Sid: She's lying! Whatever she says, it's not true!
Sid throws the doll to the ground and runs after Hannah, slamming the door behind him.
Scary Toys
Woody and Buzz peer out of the backpack at their new surroundings. Heavy metal posters, discarded toy remains and power tools adorn the messy room.
They are in Hell...toy Hell.
Woody: We are gonna die. (bolting out of the pack) I'm outta here!
Woody leaps from the bed to the doorknob and struggles to open it. No good. Woody drops to the floor.
Woody: Locked. There's got to be another way outta here.
SFX: ROLLING SOUND
Woody is startled by the noise.
A small yo-yo rolls out from behind a box and falls on its side.
Spooked, Woody grabs a pencil from the floor and brandishes it like a weapon.
Just then a shadow passes by Woody. He turns quickly but sees nothing.
Woody: Uh, Buzz? W-Was that you?
Woody hurriedly trades his pencil for a larger flashlight.
He hears a NOISE from under Sid's bed. Woody turns on the flashlight and shines the beam in the direction of the noise, illuminating A BABY DOLL HEAD'S PROFILE.
Woody: Hey, hi there, little fella. Come out here. Do you know a way outta here?
The baby doll moves out from under the bed, revealing a one-eyed doll head atop a spider-like body made of erector set pieces.
Woody: (GASP!!)
The creature extends its legs and rises up taller than Woody. Scared speechless, Woody keeps his flashlight beam locked on BABYFACE.
SFX: box plays: Pop Goes the Weasel
Various other MUTANT TOYS begin to emerge from the shadows: a toy fishing pole with fashion doll legs, a skateboard with a combat soldier's torso screwed to the front end, a jack-in-the-box with a rubber hand for a head, (and others).
Woody gasps and leaps onto the bed and hides behind Buzz.
Woody: B-B-B-B-Bu-- Buzz!
Buzz and Woody look on as the mutants have a tug of war as they grab all the Janie and pterodactyl parts, dragging them off into the shadows.
Buzz: They're cannibals!
Woody gasps retreats back into the backpack.
INT. BACKPACK - CONTINUOUS
Woody cowers in the corner as Buzz enters. He punches a button on his chest.
Buzz: Mayday, mayday! Come in, Star Command! Send reinforcements! (pause) Star Command, do you copy?
No response.
Buzz adjusts his laser light. It emits a short BLIP.
Buzz: (aiming his arm out the pack) I've set my laser from stun to kill.
Woody: Aw, great. Great. Yeah, and if anyone attacks us, we can blink 'em to death.
Woody's Gone
EXT. ANDY'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Rex points a flashlight out of Andy's bedroom window while Bo Peep, Slinky, Hamm and Potato Head look on.
Some bushes rustle below.
Rex: Hey, you guys, I think I found him! Buzz?! Is that you?!
Rex points the flashlight beam at the shaking bushes. The annoyed MEOW of a cat is heard.
Rex: Whiskers, will you get outta here! You're interfering with the search and rescue?!
SFX: APPROACHING CAR
Rex turns off the flashlight.
Slinky: (whispering) Look, they're home.
The toys duck behind the sill.
The Davis' family van pulls into the driveway. Andy and Mrs. Davis get out.
Andy: Mom, have you seen Woody?
Mrs. Davis: Where was the last place you left him?
Andy: (searching the van) Right here in the van.
Mrs. Davis: Oh, I'm sure he's there. You're just not looking hard enough.
Andy: He's not here, Mom. Woody's gone.
The toys all look at one another.
Bo Peep: (GASP) Woody's gone?
Hamm: Ah, boy, the weasel ran away.
Hamm, Potato Head and Rex walk away from the window.
Mr. Potato Head: Huh? Huh? I told you he was guilty!
Rex: Who would've thought he was capable of such atrocities?
Bo Peep and Slinky are left alone at the window, visibly crestfallen.
Bo Peep: Oh, Slink, I hope he's okay.
TALK!
DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. SID'S BEDROOM WINDOW - DAY
Sid: (O.S., as Interrogator) Oh, a survivor. Where is the rebel base? Talk!
SFX: HAND SLAP
INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
An inanimate Woody flies across the room, landing hard on the floor.
Sid crosses to the window.
Sid: (as Interrogator) I can see your will is strong.
Sid opens the window shade. Bright sunlight shines down onto Woody.
Sid: Well, we have ways of making you talk.
Sid pulls out a magnifying glass from his back pocket and focuses the beam on Woody's forehead.
A bright, white hot dot forms on Woody's forehead and begins to smolder.
Sid: (as Interrogator) Where are your rebel friends now? [sinister chuckle]
Sid's Mom: (O.S.) Sid, your Pop Tarts are ready!
Sid pulls the magnifying glass away.
Sid: Alright!
Sid runs out of the room. As soon as he's gone, Woody jumps up SCREAMING, his forehead burning.
Find Our Way Outta Here
Woody: (screaming)
Woody runs to a small blue bowl full of Froot Loops and milk and dunks his head in it to extinguish his burning forehead. Buzz walks near Woody and pulls darts off his visor and butt. He pulls Woody's head up from the bowl, revealing a small spot of ash on Woody's forehead, along with 2 Froot Loops (1 green and 1 purple) stuck to his face, which fall back into the bowl as Buzz talks.
Buzz: Are you alright? I'm proud of you, Sheriff. A lesser man would've talked under such torture.
Woody grabs a spoon to look at his reflection. He tries to rub the ash off his forehead.
Woody: I sure hope this isn't permanent.
Buzz: (checking his wrist communicator) Still no word from Star Command. We're not that far from the spaceport --
Woody's eyes light up.
ANGLE: SPOON
Sid's bedroom door can be seen in the reflection. It's open.
Woody: The door! It's open! We're free!
Woody runs for the door. Buzz follows.
Buzz: Why didn't you know what's out there!?
Woody: I'll tell you what's... [screams]
THE MUTANT TOYS suddenly appear and block their path to the doorway. Woody hides behind Buzz.
Woody: They're gonna eat us, Buzz! Do something quick!
Buzz: Shield your eyes!
Buzz fires his laser at them. The little red beam just flickers against Babyface's head. The mutant toys look confusedly at each other.
Buzz: It's not working. I recharged it before I left. I-It should be good for--
Woody: You idiot! You’re a toy! Use your karate chop action!
Grabbing Buzz like a hostage, Woody fends off the mutant toys by pushing a large button on Buzz's back, making Buzz's arm involuntarily "chop" up and down.
Woody: (to mutants) Get away! Hoo-cha! Hoo-cha!
Buzz: Hey! Hey!! How are you doing that? Stop that!
Woody: Back! Back, you savages! Back!
Woody circles around the mutant toys to the open doorway, continually chopping Buzz's arm.
Buzz: Woody, stop it!
Woody: Sorry guys, but dinner's canceled.
Woody drops Buzz and runs out the door.
There's No Place Like Home / Scud
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Woody races down the corridor...
Woody: (to himself) There's no place like home! There's no place like home! There's no place like home!
...turns onto the top of the stairwell, down a few steps, and is confronted by SCUD asleep on the landing.
Woody freezes inches away from the sleeping beast. He slowly backs up the stairs.
Suddenly Buzz appears and pulls Woody back against the hallway wall. He covers Woody's mouth with his hand.
Woody: (muffled gasp)
Buzz: (whisper) Another stunt like that, cowboy, you're gonna get us killed.
Woody: (pulling Buzz's hand away) Don't tell me what to do.
Buzz: Shhh!
Quiet Steps / Scud Chasing Woody and Buzz
Buzz checks to make sure Scud is still asleep and then darts across the stairwell opening to the other end of the hallway. Once safely across, he motions for Woody to follow.
Woody cowardly crawls on all fours across the open area and meets up with Buzz.
As he stands...
WOODY'S PULLSTRING RING gets caught on one of the curls of the wrought iron railing.
The toys begin to creep down the hallway, unaware that Woody's pull-string is being pulled farther and farther until --
It SNAPS off the iron railing and flies back toward Woody.
Woody: (Voice Box) YEE-HAW!!
Both Buzz and Woody leap in surprise at the sound of Woody's voice box.
ANGLE: SCUD'S EYE
It opens.
Woody vainly attempts to stifle the recoiling pull-string.
Woody: Giddy-up partner!...We got to get this wagon train a-movin!
Woody and Buzz take off running.
Buzz: Split up!
Two doors are ajar at the other end of the hallway. Buzz dives behind one while Woody jumps into A CLOSET.
Woody slams the door shut just as Scud reaches the top of the landing. CRASHED can be heard from behind the closet door, getting Scud's attention.
Buzz peeks out from his doorway at Scud SNIFFING AND GROWLING at the closet.
Sensing movement behind him, Scud whips around and starts to enter Buzz's doorway.
Buzz Lightyear Commercial
SFX: SNORING
The noise stops the dog in his tracks. Both Scud and Buzz look up to see...
INT. SID'S DAD'S DEN - CONTINUOUS
MR. PHILLIPS is asleep on a La-Z-Boy recliner in front of the T.V.
Scud backs out and heads down the stairs.
Buzz turns to exit the room when he hears...
Space Commander: (O.S.; on TV) Calling Buzz Lightyear. Come in, Buzz Lightyear. This is Star Command. Buzz Lightyear, do you read me?
Buzz: Star Command!
Buzz opens up his wrist communicator and is just about to speak into it when he is interrupted.
Kid: (O.S.) Buzz Lightyear responding! Read you loud and clear!
Buzz turns around to see A TELEVISION SET.
Buzz's space ranger logo is on the screen over a field of stars. The image quickly changes to a young boy playing in his backyard with a Buzz Lightyear doll.
Space Commander: Buzz Lightyear, Planet Earth needs your help!
Kid: (into toy wrist communicator) On the way!
Male Chorus: (V.O.) Buzz Lightyear!
Buzz reacts with confusion at what he is watching. He walks slowly toward the television set.
TV Announcer: (V.O.) The world's greatest superhero! Now the world's greatest toy!
ANGLE: TV COMMERCIAL
The Buzz Lightyear doll is now out of the box and being displayed.
TV Announcer: (V.O.) Buzz has it all! Locking wrist communicator!
Kid: Calling Buzz Lightyear.
TV Announcer: (V.O.) Karate chop action!
Kid: Wow!
With every feature demonstrated on the TV, Buzz compares the same feature on himself.
TV Announcer: (V.O.) Pulsating laserlight!
Kid: Total annihilation!
TV Announcer: (V.O.) Multi-phrase voice simulator!
Buzz: (Voice Box, on TV) It's a secret mission in uncharted space.
Buzz presses the same button on his uniform.
Buzz: (Voice Box) It's a secret mission in uncharted space.
TV Announcer: (V.O.) And best of all... HIGH-PRESSURE-SPACE-WINGS!!
Buzz: (on TV) To infinity and beyond!
On the TV screen, the Buzz Lightyear action figure appears to be launched through the air. The words: NOT A FLYING TOY flash across the bottom of the screen.
TV Announcer: (V.O., not as excited) Not a flying toy.
Buzz slowly shakes his head in wide-eyed disbelief.
TV Announcer: (V.O.) Get your Buzz Lightyear action figure and save a galaxy near you!
Male Chorus: (V.O.) Buzz Lightyear!
The image on the screen changes to a shot of hundreds of Buzzes in their boxes lining either side of a store aisle.
Local Announcer: (V.O.) Available at all Al's Toy Barn outlets in the tri-county area.
Sportscaster: (V.O.) And welcome back to the Point Richmond Bowling Championship.
Go Sailing No More
Buzz is stricken. He looks down at his wrist communicator and opens it.
ANGLE: WRIST COMMUNICATOR
Molded on the underside of the cover are three words: "MADE IN TAIWAN."
SONG: "I WILL GO SAILING NO MORE" BEGINS
Singer: Out among the stars I sit
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Buzz walks dejectedly out of the den and down the hallway.
Singer: Way beyond the moon
In my silver ship I sailed
To a dream that ended too soon
As he passes the top of the stairwell he pauses to look up through the railing at A SMALL WINDOW.
It is open, revealing the blue sky beyond. A bird flies past.
Singer: Now I know exactly
Who I am and what I'm here for
The taunting voice of Woody echoes in his head.
Woody: (V.O.) You are a toy! You can't fly!
Buzz bows his head, defeated.
Singer: And I will go sailing
No more
Slowly Buzz raises his head, determination in his eyes. He slams the offending wrist communicator shut, as if to deny its message of "Made in Taiwan."
Buzz climbs up the railing to the banister.
Singer: But no, it can't be true
I could fly if l wanted to
He pops open his wings and aims himself toward the window above.
Singer: Like a bird in the sky
If believed I could fly
Why, I'd fly
Buzz: To infinity and beyond!
Buzz leaps off the banister...and falls.
In SLOW MOTION Buzz watches his square of blue sky pull farther away from him as he plummets to the floor below.
INT. SID'S HOUSE/ENTRYWAY - CONTINUOUS
Buzz CRASHES on the entryway floor and BREAKS his arm.
Buzz opens his eyes to see HIS SEVERED LEFT ARM
The broken arm lies a few inches away from his now empty arm socket.
Singer: Clearly, I
Will go sailing
Buzz drops his head back in defeat.
Singer: No more
SONG ENDS
Hannah: (O.S.) Mom? Mom, have you seen my Sally doll?
Hannah walks into the entryway, and not seeing Buzz, steps on him.
Mom: (O.S.) What, dear? What was that?
Hannah picks up Buzz (and his arm) and smiles.
Hannah: Never mind!
Mrs. Nesbitt
DISSOLVE TO:
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - LATER
ANGLE: CLOSET
The knob jiggles for a moment. Suddenly, the door flies open revealing Woody, entangled in Christmas lights, standing atop a pile of boxes to be at door knob height.
Woody and the rest of the junk topple over.
A bowling ball topples out, smashing Woody square on the head.
Woody: Oo-oo-oof! (to the hallway) Buzz? the coast is clear. Buzz, where are you?
Buzz: (O.S., Voice Box) It's a secret mission in uncharted space. Let's go.
Woody creeps down the hallway, dragging the Christmas lights with him.
Hannah: (O.S.) Really? That is so interesting.
Woody peeks into the open doorway of...
INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM/UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Hannah is pretending to have a tea party. Her guests are dolls, headless dolls, that is except for BUZZ
He is seated at the miniature table, dressed up in a frilly apron and fashionable party hat.
Hannah: (continued) Would you like some tea, Mrs. Nesbitt?
Woody: (under his breath) Buzz!
Hannah has placed a tiny teapot in Buzz's severed arm and pours imaginary tea with it.
Hannah: It's so nice you could join us on such late notice.
Woody steps back into the hallway.
Woody: Oh, no!
Hannah: What a lovely hat, Mrs. Nesbitt. It goes quite well with your head.
Woody thinks for a moment, then takes a few steps further down the hall. He CLEARS HIS THROAT.
Woody: (high voice) Hannah! Oh, Hannah!
Hannah stops pouring tea and looks up.
Hannah: (yelling out her room) Mom? (to the dolls) Please excuse me, ladies. I'll be right back.
As soon as Hannah exits the room Buzz keels over face-down onto the table.
Hannah passes Woody, hidden in the Christmas lights, and walks downstairs.
Hannah: What is it, Mom? Mom, where are you?
Woody bolts into Hannah's room.
Woody: Buzz! Hey, Buzz! Are you okay?
Buzz lifts his head up and wails in drunken despair.
Buzz: GONE! (small hiss) It's all gone. All of it's gone. Bye-bye! Whoo-whoo! See ya!
Woody picks up Buzz's severed arm.
Woody: What happened to you?
Buzz: One minute you're defending the whole galaxy. (pointing at other dolls) And suddenly you find yourself suckin' down Darjeeling with Marie Antoinette and her little sister.
The headless dolls turn and wave.
Woody removes the teapot from the severed arm and sets it on the table.
Woody: I think you've had enough tea for today. (helping Buzz up) Let's get you outta here, Buzz.
Buzz: (grabbing Woody) Don't you get it?! You see the hat?!! I am Mrs. Nesbitt!! (hysterical laughter)
Woody: Snap out of it, Buzz!
Woody presses Buzz's helmet open, slaps him across the face with his own detached arm, and then politely closes the helmet.
Buzz sobers up and calmly takes his severed arm from Woody. Buzz walks out of the room while Woody follows.
Buzz: (sober) I-I-I-- I'm sorry. I-- You're right.
INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Buzz: (continued) I'm just a little depressed. That's all. I-- I-- I can get through this.
Out The Window
Buzz reaches the center of the hallway and drops to his knees.
Buzz: I'm a sham!!
Woody: (loud whisper) Sh-h-h-h-h!! Quiet, Buzz.
Buzz: Look at me! I can't even fly out of a window.
Woody stops short. He looks down the hallway in the direction of Sid's room.
ANGLE: SID'S BEDROOM WINDOW
Woody can see straight out Sid's window across the way to Andy's bedroom window.
Buzz: The hat look good? Tell me the hat look good. The apron is a bit much, it's not my color...
Woody: "Out the window"! Buzz, you're a genius!
Woody grabs the coil of Christmas lights and drags Buzz toward Sid's room.
Woody: (continued) Come on, come on. This way.
Buzz: Years of academy training, wasted!
Mr. Potato Head and Hamm
EXT. ANDY'S HOUSE/ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW
(Mr. Potato Head and Hamm are playing Battleship. Hamm's wearing Potato Head's hat.)
Mr. Potato Head: Ha, ha. B-3.
Hamm: Miss! G-6.
Mr. Potato Head: Oh! You sunk it! Are you peeking?
Hamm: Heh-heh. Oh, quit your whining and pay up.
Potato Head reaches for his ear.
Hamm: (continued) No, no, not the ear. Give me the nose. C'mon!
Mr. Potato Head: (pulling out his nose; nasally) How about three out of five?
He is about to hand his nose over to Hamm when...
Woody Sees His Friends Again
Woody: (O.S.) Hey, guys! Guys! Hey!
...both toys look across the way.
EXT. SID'S WINDOW/ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW - CONTINUOUS
Woody has just finished lifting Sid's window and waves to the toys.
Mr. Potato Head: Son of a building block, it's Woody!
Hamm: He's in the psycho's bedroom!
Woody: Ha, ha! Hi!
Hamm: (into Andy's bedroom) Everyone! It's Woody!
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
Slinky, Bo Peep and Rex look to the window.
Bo Peep: Woody?!
Rex: You're kidding!
Slinky: Woody?!
INT. SID'S ROOM
Woody: Ha! We're gonna get outta here, Buzz! Buzz.
Buzz is not there. Woody looks down at the floor.
Buzz is sitting on the floor, playing "bombs away" with his broken arm.
EXT. ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW/SID'S WINDOW
The rest of Andy's toys gather around the window to see Woody.
Rex: Hey, look!
Bo Peep: Woody?!
Woody: Oh, boy, am I glad to see you guys.
Slinky: I knew you'd come back, Woody.
Bo Peep: What are you doing over there?
Woody: It's a long story, Bo. I'll explain later. Here! Catch this!
Woody tosses one end of the Christmas lights over. Slinky catches them.
Bo Peep: Ha!
Slinky: Whoa! I got it, Woody.
Rex: (overly excited) He got it, Woody.
Woody: Good going', Slink. Now just, just tie it on to something'.
Woody Does It
Woody Does It - Part 1: Liar!
Mr. Potato Head: Wait, wait, wait, wait! I got a better idea! How 'bout we DON'T!
(Potato Head grabs the string of lights away from Slinky.)
Slinky: Hey?!!
Bo Peep: Potato Head!?
Mr. Potato Head: Did you all take stupid pills this morning! Have you forgotten what he did to Buzz! And now you want to let him back over here!!
Woody: No, no, no! No, no, no, no, no! You got it-- You got it all wrong, Potato Head! Buzz is fine! Buzz is right here. He's with me!
Mr. Potato Head: You are a liar!
Woody: No, I'm not! (to Buzz) Buzz, come over here and you just tell the nice toys that you're-- that you're not dead.
ANGLE: BUZZ
He doesn't respond, preoccupied with peeling off the sticker on his wrist communicator. He crumples it up and tosses it aside.
Woody: (to Andy's toys) Just a sec!
INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Frantic, Woody walks over to the edge of the desk.
Woody: Buzz, will you get up here and give me a hand?!
Buzz's severed arm comes flying into view and lands by Woody's feet.
Woody: (insincerely) Ha-ha-ha-ha. That's very funny, Buzz. (shouting) This is serious!!
Rex: (O.S.) Hey, Woody!? Where'd you go!?
Mr. Potato Head: (O.S.) He's lyin'. Buzz ain't there.
EXT. SID'S WINDOW/ANDY'S WINDOW
Woody reappears at the edge of Sid's window. He pretends to notice something out of the other toy's view.
Woody: (forced casualness) Oh! Hi, Buzz! Why don't you say hello to the guys over there!
BUZZ'S SEVERED ARM suddenly appears with Woody holding the end just out of sight. Woody throws his voice, pretending to be Buzz.
Woody: (As Buzz) Hiya, fellas. To infinity and beyond!
Rex: Hey, look! It's Buzz!
Woody: (shaking the arm's hand) Yeah. Hey, Buzz, let's show the guys our new secret best-friends handshake. Give me five, man!
Hamm: (irritated) Something's screwy here.
Woody: So, you see we’re friends now, guys. Aren't we, Buzz? (as Buzz) You bet. Give me a hug.
Woody makes Buzz's arm grab his neck and pull him forward.
Woody: (continued; as himself) Ha, ha, oh, I love you, too.
Slinky: See? It is Buzz. Now give back the lights, Potato Head.
Mr. Potato Head: Wait just a minute.
Woody Does It - Part 2: Murderer!
Mr. Potato Head: What are you trying to pull?!
Woody: Nothing!
Woody innocently shrugs and throws both his hands up...
...exposing the severed arm.
The toys all SCREAM in horror.
Realizing his mistake, Woody tries to hide the arm, but it's too late.
Rex clasps his hands to his mouth and turns away to BARF.
Hamm: Oh, that is disgusting.
Mr. Potato Head: (raging furious) MURDERER!!!
Woody: NO!! No, no, no, no, no!
Mr. Potato Head: You murdering dog!!
Woody: It's not what you think! I swear!
Mr. Potato Head: Save it for the jury! I hope Sid pulls your voice box out, ya creep!
Potato Head drops the lights.
Woody: No, no! No, no! Don't leave! Don't leave! Ya got to help us, please! You don't know what it's like over here!
Mr. Potato Head: (to the other toys) Come on. Let's get outta here.
Hamm: Go back to your lives, citizens. Show's over.
(All the toys leave the window except Slinky.)
Woody: Come back! Slink! Slink! Please! Please! Listen to me!
Unable to look Woody in the eye, Slinky closes the blinds.
Woody: (continued) No! NO! COME BACK! Sli-i-i-inkyyy!
Fixing Buzz
SFX: THUNDER
As storm clouds roll over Sid's house, Woody slumps over the window sill in defeat.
INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
BROKEN TOY SOUNDS emit from behind Woody. He turns from the window to see THE MUTANT TOYS converging all around Buzz.
Woody: BUZZ!
Still holding onto Buzz's arm, Woody jumps down from the desk and runs to Buzz's rescue.
Woody: Go away! You disgusting freaks!
Babyface turns from the fray and charges at Woody with his erector-set pinchers.
Woody: Aaah!!
Woody cowers, shielding himself from Buzz's arm.
Babyface clamps onto the arm and has a tug-o-war with Woody.
Woody: Alright back! Back, you cannibals!
Woody loses his grip on the arm and sails across the room, crashing into the wall.
Woody: Aah! Oof!
By now there is no sight of Buzz within the swarming mass of mutant toys.
Woody attacks the mob with a vengeance.
Woody: He is still alive, and you're not gonna get him, you monsters!
He furiously throws the mutant toys aside, digging his way to BUZZ
He is sitting up, his broken arm now newly-attached.
Woody's anger turns to confusion.
Woody: Hey? Hey, they fixed you?
Woody shakes Buzz's arm to confirm what he's seeing is real when he looks to the mutants.
Woody: But- But they're cannibals. We saw them eat those other toys.
The mutant toys part to reveal the recent victims of Sid's last "operation": The Janie Doll and Pterodactyl. Their heads have been taped back on the correct bodies.
The mutants all innocently stare at Woody.
Woody: Uh...sorry? I-I-I thought that you were gonna...? (laughs nervously) you know, you know, eat my friend.
Immediately, the mutant toys retreat back into the dark corners of the room.
Woody: Hey? No, no, wait, hey?! What's wrong!
The Big One!
Sid's Mom: (O.S.) Sid!
Sid: (O.S.) Not now, Mom, I'm busy!
Woody: Sid!
FOOTSTEPS approach the bedroom. Woody tries to pick up the still depressed Buzz, but he just goes limp.
Mom: You left that door open!
Woody: Buzz! C'mon, get up! Use your legs!
Woody begins dragging Buzz toward the bed, but their progress is too slow. He shakes Buzz hard.
Woody: Fine! Let Sid trash you, but don't blame me!
Woody leaves Buzz sitting alone in the middle of the floor and hides underneath a nearby milkcrate just as Sid enters carrying a big box.
Sid: It came! It finally came! Ha, ha!
Sid runs over to his workbench and rips open the box.
Sid: (reverently) "The Big One"!
He pulls out a rocket with "THE BIG ONE" written on it.
Sid: (reading the rocket label) "Extremely dangerous. Keep out of reach of children." COOL... (looks around) What am I gonna blow? Man. Hey, where's that wimpy cowboy doll?
Sid spots the milkcrate and picks it up.
No Woody.
ANGLE: UNDERSIDE OF MILKCRATE
Out of Sid's view, Woody presses against the inside, hanging on for dear life.
SFX: BUZZ'S LASER
Sid looks down and notices he's stepping on Buzz, activating his laser.
Sid: Yes! I've always wanted to put a spaceman into orbit. Ha-ha.
He places Buzz and the milkcrate on the workbench and throws a toolbox on top of the crate.
The impact of the toolbox dislodges Woody from his hiding place. Woody quickly ducks under a magazine on the floor of the crate "jail."
Woody watches helplessly as Sid fishes out a roll of electrical tape from the toolbox and, with an IRREVERENT CHUCKLE, tapes Buzz to the rocket.
Sid: Now. Yes.
Rain
SFX: THUNDERCLAP
A flash of lightning interrupts the moment.
Sid: Oh, no...!
Sid crosses to the window to see a huge rainstorm commence. Sullenly, he smacks his head against the window.
Sid: Aw, man...!
Woody heaves a SIGH of relief.
Suddenly Sid's face brightens. He turns his focus from the rain to the Buzzrocket.
Sid: (as Newscaster) Sid Phillips reporting. Launch of the shuttle has been delayed due to adverse weather conditions at the launch site. Tomorrow's forecast...
Sid smacks Buzz down on the desk, winds his alarm clock, and places it next to Buzz.
Sid: Sunny. Ha-ha-ha. Sweet dreams.
Leaving Them Behind
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - THAT NIGHT
Andy is being tucked into bed by his mother. She hands him his cowboy hat.
Mrs. Davis: I looked everywhere, honey, but all I could find was your hat.
Andy: (groggy) But what if we leave them behind?
Mrs. Davis: Oh, don't worry, honey, I'm sure we'll find Woody and Buzz before we leave tomorrow.
Andy's eyes shut. Mom turns out the light and quietly exits the room.
A moving box on the floor, with the words "Andy's Toys!" scrawled on it, begins to shake from side to side.
Rex (O.S.) (muffled) Aaaah! I need air!
Rex pops out of the top of the box, COUGHING a packing styrofoam peanut out of his mouth. Potato Head appears beside him.
Rex: (relieved) Aa-a-a-a-ah! (COUGH)
Mr. Potato Head: Will you quit moving around?!
Rex: I'm sorry. It's just that I get so nervous before I travel!
Mr. Potato Head: How did I get stuck with YOU as a moving buddy!
Potato Head drops back down into the box.
Rex: (following Potato Head) Everyone else was picked.
BO PEEP peeks around the corner of one of the boxes and looks up at Andy fast asleep clutching his cowboy hat.
Bo Peep: Oh, Woody. if only you could see how much Andy misses you.
You Are A Cool Toy!
EXT. SID'S HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT
THUNDER RUMBLES as rain pours down outside the spooky dwelling.
INT. SID'S ROOM
Sid is in bed fast asleep.
Woody struggles to move his milkcrate jail, but with the weight of the toolbox on top it won't budge.
Woody looks across the desktop at Buzz sitting dejectedly with the rocket strapped to his back.
Woody: Psst! Psst! Hey, Buzz!
No reaction from Buzz.
Woody picks up a stray washer from the desktop and flings it at Buzz, striking his helmet.
Buzz lifts his head and turns lifelessly to look at Woody.
Woody: Hey! Get over here and see if you can get this tool box off me.
Buzz just looks away from Woody and bows his head.
Woody: Oh, come on, Buzz, I-- Buzz, I can't do this without you. I need your help.
Buzz: I can't help. I can't help anyone.
Woody: Why, sure you can, Buzz. You can get me outta here. And then I'll get that rocket off you, and we'll make a break for Andy's house.
Buzz: Andy's house, Sid's house. What's the difference?
Woody: Oh, Buzz. You've had a big fall. You must not be thinking clearly.
Buzz: No, Woody. For the first time I am thinking clearly. (looking at himself) You were right all along. I'm not a Space Ranger. I'm just a toy, a stupid, little, insignificant toy.
Woody: Whoa, hey, wait a minute. Being' a toy is a lot better than being' a, a Space Ranger.
Buzz: Yeah, right.
Woody: No, it is. Look, over in that house is a kid who thinks you are the greatest. And it's not because you're a Space Ranger, pal. It's because you're a toy. You are his toy.
Buzz: But why would Andy want me?
Woody: Why would Andy want you?! Look at you! You're a Buzz Lightyear. Any other toy would give up his moving parts just to be you. You've got wings, you glow in the dark, you talk, your helmet does that, that, that whoosh thing. -- You are a COOL toy.
Woody pauses and looks at himself.
Woody: (continued; depressed) As a matter of fact, you're too cool. I mean -- I mean what chance does a toy like me have against a Buzz Lightyear action figure? All I can do is...
Woody pulls his own pull-string.
Woody: (Voice Box) There's a snake in my boot!
Woody bows his head.
Woody: Why would Andy ever want to play with me, when he's got you? (pause) I'm the one that should be strapped to that rocket.
Woody slumps dejectedly against the crate, his back to Buzz.
Buzz lifts up his foot.
ANGLE: THE SOLE OF BUZZ'S FOOT
The signature "ANDY" reads through the dirt and scuff marks.
Buzz gazes back at Woody. A look of determination spreads across his face.
Woody: Listen, Buzz, forget about me. You should get outta here while you can.
Silence.
Escaping A Way Out
Woody turns around.
Buzz is gone.
Suddenly, the entire milkcrate begins to shake. Woody looks up to see BUZZ.
He is on top of the milkcrate, trying to push the tool box off.
Woody: Buzz? What are you doin'? I thought you were—?
Buzz: Come on, Sheriff. There's a kid over in that house who needs us. Now let's get you out of this thing.
Woody: Yes, sir!
Both Buzz and Woody push the milkcrate and together, they finally get it to move but it's slow progress.
Woody: (strained) Come on, Buzz! We can do it!
SFX: TRUCK
The two toys stop to look out the window by the workbench.
ANGLE: OUT SID'S BEDROOM WINDOW
With the rain stopped and the sun beginning to rise...
A MOVING TRUCK can be seen pulling up in front of Andy's house.
Buzz: Woody! It's the moving van.
Woody: We've got to get out of here... NOW.
Buzz braces himself between the tool chest and the wall.
Using his legs, Buzz pushes with all his might. The toolbox begins to move.
Woody notices that with every shove Buzz gives to the tool chest, the milkcrate begins to edge out over the lip of the desk.
Woody: C'mon, Buzz.
Finally, the gap is wide enough for Woody to jump through. Woody drops down to the floor below.
Woody: (loud whisper) Alright. Buzz! Hey! I'm out!
Buzz doesn't hear Woody and continues to shove the toolbox (and milkcrate) farther out.
Buzz: ...almost (GRUNT) ...there (GRUNT) ...
Woody looks up just in time to see the entire toolbox and milkcrate topple toward him.
Woody: (nervous laugh)
The toolbox CRASHES right on top of Woody.
Buzz falls onto the desktop and glances over to Sid, who stirs...
Sid: (in his sleep) I wanna ride the pony...
Sid does not wake. Buzz heaves a SIGH OF RELIEF, then peers over the edge of the workbench.
Buzz: Woody? Woody!? Are you alright!
Woody lifts himself out from under the rubble.
Woody: (punch-drunk) No, I'm fine...I'm okay...
SFX: ALARM CLOCK
It goes off by Sid's bed. Woody drops back under the toolbox and Buzz goes limp.
Sid groggily sits up for a beat, then his eyes light up.
Sid: Oh, yeah! Time for lift-off! Whoo!
Sid jumps out of bed, grabs Buzz and bolts out of the room.
Sid: (O.S.) TO INFINITY AND BEYOND!
Woody leaps to his feet, runs across the room, and catches the door just before it closes. As he swings the door back open Woody is confronted by SCUD.
The dog barrels down the hallway straight for Woody.
Woody: Ah! Aaah! Back! Back! Back! Down! Down!
Woody slams the door shut just in time. Scud BARKS AND SCRATCHES at the door.
Woody Helps the Mutant Toys
Woody: (out of breath; to himself) Okay, what do I do? Come on Woody, think!
Woody looks across the room.
THE MUTANT TOYS have appeared all around the room.
Woody: Guys!
The mutant toys all scatter and hide.
Woody: No, no, no, no! Wait! Wait. Listen, please. There's a good toy down there, and he's gonna be blown to bits in a few minutes. All because of me. We’ve got to save him. (pause) But I need your help.
No response.
Woody then notices Babyface timidly peeking out of the shadows from under the bed.
Woody: Please. He's my friend. And he's the only one I've got.
Babyface crawls out and bangs in code on the side of Sid's metal bedpost.
The mutant toys emerge from the shadows and gather around Woody. He kneels down into a huddle with them.
Woody: (to Babyface) Thank you. (to the others) Okay. I think I know what to do. We're gonna have to break a few rules, but if it works, it'll help everybody.
Getting Out
INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM
THE MOVERS cart out the last load. A forlorn Andy clutches onto Buzz's "spaceship" box in one hand and his cowboy hat in the other.
Andy scans the empty room and heaves a sad SIGH.
EXT. BACKYARD SHED
Sid comes out of the she carrying a bunch of materials under his arm.
Sid: (as Astronaut) Houston to Mission Control. Come in, Control.
He drops the junk down beside an inanimate Buzz.
Sid: (continued) Launch pad is being constructed!
SID'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY
Scud is planted right outside Sid's bedroom door, poised to attack anything that exits.
INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Woody has created a little diagram of the house and yard out of dominoes and Scrabble tiles. He points to it with a pencil as he addresses the mutants.
Woody: Alright, listen up. I need Pump Boy here -- Ducky here. Legs?
LEGS, the toy fishing rod with fashion doll legs, steps forward from the crowd.
Woody: (continued; to Legs) You're with Ducky. (to the others) RollerBob and I don't move till we get the signal. Clear?
The mutants all give an affirmative nod.
Woody: Okay. Let's move!
The toys all break.
Legs and DUCKY, a duck head Pez dispenser with baby doll torso and plunger base, rush over to a heating grate and pull the face plate off the wall. They disappear into the heating duct.
INT. HEATING DUCT - CONTINUOUS
Ducky and Legs come to an intersection. Ducky QUACKS and they head down the right tunnel.
INT. SID'S ROOM
HAND-IN-THE-BOX, the rubber hand in the Jack-in-the-box, stacks on top of several mutant toys to reach the doorknob of the bedroom door.
Woody hops onto ROLLERBOB, a skateboard with a soldier's upper torso tied to its front.
Woody: Wind the frog!
WALKING CAR, a Hot Wheels car with baby arms, begins winding up THE FROG, a tin wind-up frog with monster truck wheels instead of legs.
INT. SID'S HOUSE/PORCH ATTIC
A bottom of wall insulation is pushed aside to reveal Ducky and Legs. They make their way toward a junction box sitting in the center of the floor.
Ducky and Legs lift the loose junction box.
EXT. SID'S HOUSE/FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS
THE BROKEN PORCH LIGHT suddenly lifts upward and disappears into the roof.
Ducky extends his Pez neck out of the hole to check that the coast is clear.
INT. SID'S ROOM
All the toys have manned their positions and wait silently, their eyes fixed on Woody.
Woody: Wait for the signal.
Doorbell
INT. PORCH ATTIC
Ducky takes the end of the line off Legs' fishing reel, hooks it onto himself, and is then lowered down through the open hole.
EXT. FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS
Hanging halfway down the front door, Ducky begins to swing. Eventually he swings far enough to reach his destination: the doorbell.
Ducky presses it.
SFX: DOORBELL
INT. SID'S ROOM
Woody throws his arm down.
Woody: Go!!
Hand-in-the-box throws open the door and The Frog is let loose.
The Frog zips through Scud's legs and down the hallway. Scud chases after it and follows it down the stairs.
SFX: DOORBELL
Woody: Alright, let's go!
Woody helps the rest of the mutant toys onto the skateboard.
Hannah: (O.S.) I'll get it!
Woody: Now!
Using his front arms, Rollerbob propels the skateboard and crew out into the hallway.
INT. SID'S HOUSE/ENTRYWAY
SFX: DOORBELL
Hannah walks to the front door...
Hannah: I'm coming! I'm coming!
...and opens it.
EXT./INT. FRONT DOORWAY - CONTINUOUS
Nobody's there.
Hannah doesn't notice Ducky stuck to the porch floor by his plunger.
THE FROG zooms down the stairs with Scud BARKING right behind. The Frog leaps off the last step, speeds through Hannah's legs and out the open front door.
Hannah looks back inside at Scud. In that moment, Ducky catches the Frog and is quickly reeled upwards back into the roof.
Scud bursts through Hannah's legs, knocking her over, and runs out onto the empty porch.
Hannah: (annoyed) SCUD!
Scud suddenly realizes he's been duped, but before he can get back inside, Hannah slams the front door shut.
Hannah: Stupid dog!
Scud smashes into the closed door and begins BARKING furiously.
Sid's Backyard
As Hannah storms off into another room, she doesn't notice Woody and the mutants zipping off the stairs and ‘round the corner, heading straight into the kitchen.
INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
By now RollerBob has really picked up speed. He shoots underneath the kitchen table, through the maze of chair legs, straight toward...
THE PET DOOR
Woody: Lean back!
The mutants all push back causing the RollerBob to do a wheelie. They smash through the doggie door...
EXT. SID'S BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS
...and catapult into the bushes.
The toys peek out from the bush to see Buzz strapped to the launchpad. Sid is still in the toolshed.
Sid: (O.S.; As Astronaut) Uh? Mission Control, is the launch pad construction complete. (simulated static) Uh, roger? Rocket is now secured to guide wire. We are currently obtaining the ignition sticks. Countdown will commence momentarily. Stand by. (simulated static)
Ducky, Legs, and the Frog shoot out into the yard from a drain pipe. They exchange a thumbs-up with Woody.
Woody: (to toys in the bush) Let's go!
The mutants disperse to their designated places in the yard.
Sid: (O.S.) Hey, Ma?! Where are the matches! Oh, oh, wait? Here they are. Never mind??
Woody runs toward Buzz, who spots Woody approaching.
Buzz: (loud whisper) Woody? Great! Help me out of this thing!
Woody stops a few feet away from Buzz.
Woody: Shh!
Buzz: What!
Woody: (loud whisper) It's ok. Everything's under control.
Woody deliberately falls down limp on the grass.
Buzz: Woody, what are you doing!
The Match
Sid emerges from the tool shed. Buzz freezes.
Sid: (As Astronaut) Houston, all systems are go. Requesting permission to launch -- (spotting Woody) Hey? How'd you get out here...
Sid picks up Woody, examines him for a beat and then smiles.
Sid: Oh, well, you and I can have a cookout later. Ha-ha-ha...
He sticks a match prominently in Woody's holster and tosses him onto the grill of an open barbecue.
Sid: (As Astronaut) Houston, do we have permission to launch? -- (simulated static) Uh, Roger, permission granted. You are confirmed at T minus 10 seconds...
During Sid's countdown, all the mutants scurry into their final positions.
Sid lights a match.
THE TOYS ARE ALIVE!!!
Sid: (continued) ...and counting. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1!
Sid grins menacingly as the match moves toward the fuse.
Woody: (Voice Box) Reach for the sky.
Sid: Huh?.
Sid pulls back from lighting the fuse. He turns to look at Woody still lying lifelessly atop the barbecue except for the sound emitting from his voice box.
Woody: (Voice Box) This town ain't big enough for the two of us!
Sid: What?!
Sid walks over to Woody and picks him up.
Woody: (Voice Box) Somebody's poisoned the water hole...
Sid: It's busted.
He raises Woody up, about to throw him away --
Woody: (Voice Box) Who are you callin' busted, Buster?!
Sid stops short and looks at Woody again.
Woody: (Voice Box, continued) That's right. I'm TALKING to YOU, Sid Phillips.
While Woody's voice box talks, Sid checks the pull-string.
It isn't moving. Sid GULPS.
Woody: (Voice Box, continued) We don't like being blown up, Sid, or smashed, or ripped apart...
Sid: W-w-w-we?
Woody: (Voice Box) That's right. Your toys.
The remains of broken toys in the yard, led by the bedroom mutants, begin rising from the ground in "NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD" fashion.
Doll: Mama! Mama! Mama! Mama!
The toys march forward, forming a circle around Sid. Sid is too frightened to SCREAM or move.
Doll: (continued) Mama!
Woody (Voice Box) From now on, you must take good care of your toys! Because if you don't, we'll find out, Sid.
Woody's inanimate head rotates 360 degrees.
Woody: (Voice Box, continued) We toys can see everything.......
For a split-second Woody's face comes to life.
Woody: (regular voice) SO. PLAY. NICE.
Sid drops Woody and BOLTS inside the house.
Sid: (SCREAMING)!!!!!!!
Woody and all the toys CHEER VICTORIOUSLY LIKE THEY WON IN A SOCCER GAME.
Woody: (delighted) Ha-ha! We did it! We did it! Ha-ha! YES!!!
INT. SID'S ENTRYWAY
Hannah has just come downstairs carrying a new doll when Sid rushes up to her.
Sid: THE TOYS! THE TOYS ARE ALIVE!!
Sid eyes Hannah's doll and pats it gently on the head.
Sid: (continued) N-n-nice toy...
Hannah, sensing Sid's fear, suddenly thrusts the doll in Sid's face. He SHRIEKS and runs upstairs. Hannah chases after him, taunting.
Hannah: What's wrong, Sid! Don't you want to play with Sally?
Bye House!
EXT. SID'S BACKYARD
The toys are all congratulating one another.
Woody: Nice work, fellahs. Good job. Comin' out of the ground -- what a touch! That was a stroke of genius.
Buzz: Woody!
Woody turns around and looks at Buzz, who's still affixed to Sid's launchpad. Buzz extends his hand to Woody.
Buzz: Thanks.
They shake.
SFX: VAN HORN HONKING
Mrs. Davis: (O.S.) Everybody say, "Bye, house!"
Buzz: Woody! The van!
Andy: (O.S., depressed) Bye, house!
Buzz and Woody look in the direction of Andy's house.
ANGLE: ANDY'S DRIVEWAY - THE FAMILY VAN
Through the fence, Andy and his family can be seen getting into the van.
Woody quickly hoists Buzz off the pole he was tied to.
Woody: (to mutant toys) We gotta run! Thanks, guys!!
With the rocket still taped to Buzz, the two toys sprint toward the fence.
SFX: VAN ENGINE STARTING
Woody: Quick!
Woody easily slips through the slats in the fence, but Buzz's rocket causes him to become stuck.
EXT. ANDY'S DRIVEWAY - CONTINUOUS
Woody has climbed up on to the rear bumper of the van before realizing that Buzz is missing. He looks back to discover Buzz stuck in the fence.
Buzz: Just go! I'll catch up!
Woody jumps down and runs back for Buzz.
The van begins pulling out of the driveway.
Woody tugs on a loosened slat and breaks Buzz free of the fence.
The two toys run out into the street just in time to see the van driving off down the street.
The Truck / Scud Chase
SFX: TRUCK ENGINE
Woody and Buzz turn around.
THE MOVING VAN drives right over them. Woody and Buzz SCREAM, ducking just in time.
After the truck passes, Buzz runs after it with Woody a few steps behind.
Buzz: Come on!
ANGLE: SID'S FRONT PORCH
Scud is lying on the porch when he suddenly perks up at the sight of the two tiny toys running down the street after the moving truck.
Scud bears his teeth and GROWLS.
EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
Buzz runs up close to the truck with Woody still back a few paces.
A STRAP dangles off the back of the truck. Buzz makes a leap for it and grabs hold. He climbs up the strap and onto the bumper.
Woody then lunges for the strap, but it stays just out of reach.
Buzz: You can do it, Woody!
Woody gives a mighty leap and catches hold of the strap.
Woody: Woo-hoo-hoo! I made it.
Woody begins climbing up when suddenly Buzz goes pale. Woody looks behind him to see SCUD
The dog leaps forward and bites down on one of Woody's legs.
Woody: (kicking Scud with other foot) Aaaaaahh!! Aah! Get away, you stupid dog! Down! Down! Aah! Aah!
Scud tugs on Woody, pulling him down to the end of the strap.
Buzz: Hold on, Woody!
Woody: I can't do it! Take care of Andy for me!
Buzz: NOOOOOOO!!
Buzz leaps off of the truck and onto Scuds snout. He grabs Scud's eyelids and snaps them hard. Scud YELPS, letting go of Woody. The dog bucks wildly with Buzz hanging onto his face.
Woody: Buzz!
The moving truck continues down the street leaving Buzz and Scud behind.
Still hanging onto the strap, Woody scrambles up onto the bumper. He unlocks the back door of the truck and tries to lift up the heavy door.
Suddenly, the family van and moving truck come to a stop at a traffic light.
Woody slams into the door, causing it to fly upward taking Woody with it.
Hanging from the door, Woody scans the inside of the truck until he spots what he's looking for.
A PILE OF MOVING BOXES with the words "ANDY'S TOYS" written on them in crayon.
EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
Scud flings Buzz off his face. Buzz goes tumbling under a parked car. Scud runs over to the car, but is too big to get under it.
INT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
Woody rips into one of Andy's boxes.
ANGLE: INSIDE OF BOX
All the toys wince and MOAN as they cover their eyes from the sudden brightness.
Slinky: Ow!
Rex: Are we there already?
Mr. Potato Head: Woody?
Rex: Woody?
Slinky: How did you...?
Hamm: How'd he get here?
Slinky: Where have you...? What happened?
Woody's response is to slide the box aside and begin rummaging through the next box.
Slinky, Potato Head, Rex and the other toys GRUMBLE IN CONFUSION as they poke their heads up out of the first box.
Rex: Ow!
Hamm: What's goin' on? What's he taken?
Woody: Ah-hah! There you are!
Woody pulls the RC Car and its remote out of the second box.
Mr. Potato Head: Hey! What's he doing?
RC Race
Woody runs to the back of the truck and throws the RC Car out onto the street. The other toys SCREAM in horror.
Rex: He's at it again!
INTERCUT - EXT. STREET/INT. REAR OF MOVING TRUCK
Woody turns on the remote and steers the RC car past Scud and under the parked car where Buzz is hiding.
RC's motor WHIRRS happily at the sight of Buzz.
The traffic light turns green allowing the van and truck to cross the intersection.
Mr. Potato Head: (pointing at Woody) Get him!!!
Toy: Come on!
All the toys pour out of their boxes and CHARGE on Woody.
Rex: Roar!
Woody: Ah-h!! Ah-h! No, no!
Woody continues to steer the remote while trying to avoid the angry mob of toys.
Buzz jumps on to the RC car and they zoom back toward the moving truck.
Scud is right on their heels and is about to chomp down on Buzz --
Rocky picks up Woody and spins him over his head.
Woody: No, no, no, no! Wait! (as Rocky spins him) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
-- The RC car suddenly swerves from Scud's jaws and starts doing doughnuts (matching Woody's) in the middle of the street.
Buzz: (spinning) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Woody: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Rocky throws Woody to the floor.
-- RC resumes his course straight down the street with Scud giving close chase.
Hamm leaps off a pile of boxes and onto Woody.
Hamm: Pig pile!!
-- The RC car hops up in the air, tossing Buzz up and off. Buzz manages to land back on RC, but facing backwards.
ANGLE: TRAFFIC LIGHT
It changes red again and the wall of cross traffic resumes.
Buzz, on seeing this, screams as he and the RC car drive straight into it.
Scud blindly follows them into the traffic and skids to a halt just missing a car. The car swerves and CRASHES into another car. Soon there is a multi-car pileup that encircles Scud, entrapping the dog.
Driver #1: Get outta that car!
Driver #2: Move it!
Buzz and the RC car emerge from the intersection safely on the other side.
INT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
Buzz: Whew.
Leaving Woody Behind
The mob of toys lift up Woody (still holding the remote) and head for the open back.
Woody: No wait! You don't understand! Buzz is out there! We've gotta help him!!
Mr. Potato Head: Toss him overboard!
Woody: No, no, no, wait! Aah!
The toys toss him out into the road. As the truck drives off, the toys CHEER.
Rex: Hooray!
Mr. Potato Head: So long Woody!
EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS
SFX: CAR HORN
Woody turns around and ducks just in time as a car passes over him.
Shaken, Woody tries to get up again when BUZZ & RC come barreling toward him.
Catching Up Woody's Friends
Buzz: Oh! Woody!
The RC Car sweeps up Woody and keeps driving.
Woody: Whoa!
Woody finds himself sitting in front of Buzz (still holding the remote).
Woody: Oh! Well, thanks for the ride.
Buzz: (pointing ahead) Look out!!
The toys are about to slam into the rear tire of the car that had passed over Woody earlier.
Woody SCREAMS and gives the steering wheel on the remote a hard left, missing the tire by inches. The RC Car moves up under the car.
Woody: Now let's catch up to that truck!
ANGLE: RC REMOTE
Woody flicks a switch from "ON" to "TURBO."
The RC Car speeds up toward the moving truck.
INT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
The toys are busy CONGRATULATING one another when Lenny, the wind-up binoculars, glances out the back and spots Buzz and Woody.
Helping Woody (NOT LEAVING WOODY BEHIND)
Lenny: Guys! Guys! Woody's riding RC!
Toys: What?!
Lenny: And Buzz is with him!
The toys rush to the edge of the open truck. Bo picks up Lenny and looks through him.
ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF BUZZ & WOODY
Bo Peep: It is Buzz! Woody was telling the truth!
Slinky: What have we done?!
Rex: Great. Now I have guilt.
EXT. STREET/BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
The RC Car begins to gain on the truck.
Woody: We're almost there!
Bo Peep: Rocky! The ramp!
Rocky, the wrestler doll, rushes over to a lever on the side of the back. The sign above it reads "RAMP: UP/DOWN." Rocky pushes down hard on the lever. The ramp begins to lower.
Woody & Buzz look up to see the ramp about to come down right on top of them.
Buzz: Look out!!
The RC Car pulls back just before the heavy ramp slams into the road. Sparks fly everywhere from the metal scraping the pavement.
Slinky: (to other toys) Quick! Hold on to my tail!
Potato Head and Rex grabs on to Slinky's tail allowing Slinky's front end to jump off the truck and onto the ramp.
Slinky leans forward with his paw outstretched to Woody. Woody hands the remote to Buzz and leans forward to grab Slinky's hand.
ANGLE: WOODY & SLINKY'S HANDS
They grab hold of one another.
Mr. Potato Head: Atta boy, Slink!!
All of a sudden, the RC Car begins to slow down pulling Slinky's front end off the ramp.
Slinky: Oh! Woody!!
His slinky middle begins to stretch and stretch...
Slinky: Woody! Speed up!
Woody: (to Buzz) Speed up!
Buzz: The batteries! They're running out!
RC's headlight eyes sag. The car slows even more.
Slinky: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
As Slinky continues stretching. The RC Car begins to weave side-to-side like a water skier.
Slinky: (screaming)
INT. FAMILY VAN
With Mom and Andy preoccupied, baby Molly looks in her sideview mirror.
Radio: Hakuna Matata
ANGLE: PASSENGER SIDE MIRROR
Radio: What a wonderful phrase
The RC Car (w/ Woody and Buzz) weaves into view and then back out.
Molly SQUEALS with delight.
EXT. STREET/BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
With Slinky's mid-section stretched to the limit, he begins to lose his grip on Woody.
Slinky: I can't hold on much longer!
Woody: Slink! Hang on!
Slinky's hand slips, sending his front shooting back into the moving truck and knocking over all the toys.
Stuck Together
The RC Car sputters to a stop.
Woody and Buzz watch in vain as the family van and moving truck disappear.
Buzz tosses the remote to the ground in frustration.
Woody: (sarcastic) Great!
Buzz: Woody! The rocket!
Woody: The match!
Woody pulls out the match from his holster that Sid had put there earlier.
Woody: (continued) Yes! Thank you, Sid!
Woody runs around behind Buzz, strikes the match against RC's back tire, and is about to light the fuse when...
A CAR whizzes right over them, blowing out the match.
Woody clenches the burnt match in his hands and falls prostrate to the ground.
Woody: No! No, no! No! No! Oh, no! No, no, no, no, no, no! No!
Unable with a cowboy cry, Buzz bows his head, causing his helmet to block the sun from Woody.
As Buzz's shadow passes over him, Woody stops whimpering and looks at his hand.
A WHITE, HOT DOT like the one generated from Sid's magnifying glass, appears on the back of Woody's hand.
Woody leaps up, grabs Buzz's helmet and aligns it so the white dot hits the tip of the fuse.
Buzz: Woody, what are you doing?
Woody: Hold still, Buzz!
The fuse lights.
Woody: Ha-ha!!
Buzz: You did it! Next stop: Andy!
Woody jumps back onto the car then suddenly stops smiling.
Rockets Explode!
Woody: Wait a minute... I just lit a rocket! ROCKETS EXPLODE!
SFX: ROCKET EXPLOSION
The RC Car rockets forward. Speeding along the dividing line in the road, it easily passes car after car until the moving truck can be seen on the horizon.
EXT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
The toys are gathered around Slinky, his spring splayed out on the floor.
Slinky: I shoulda held on longer.
Lenny looks out the back again.
Lenny: Look! Look! It's Woody and Buzz! Comin' up fast!
The toys run to the opening and CHEER.
Rex: Woody!
ANGLE: BUZZ AND WOODY
The rocket is so strong that it begins to lift Buzz and Woody off the RC Car. Woody manages to continue holding onto RC -- but not for long.
The toys CHEERING turns to SCREAMING as they rush to get out of the way of the oncoming "RC rocket."
Rex: Take cover!!
Woody is forced to let go of the RC Car.
They separate, sending the two toys upward and RC into the back of the truck.
RC smashes into Potato Head, sending all of his parts flying.
To Infinity And Beyond!
EXT. SKY - BUZZ AND WOODY
The rocket hurtles upward higher and higher.
Woody: Ahhh!! This is the part where we blow up!
Buzz: Not today!
Buzz confidently presses the button on his chest.
WINGS jut out of Buzz, severing the tape that holds him to rocket. The toys separate from the rocket just before it BLOWS UP.
The toys plummet.
Woody: (covering his eyes) Ah-h-h-h-h!!
Just then Buzz banks under some power lines and soars upward again. Woody takes a peek.
They're FLYING (a.k.a. FALLING WITH STYLE)
Woody: Hey, Buzz!! You're flying!!
Buzz: This isn't flying. This is falling -- with style!
Woody: Ha-ha-ha!! To infinity and beyooooooooooooooooond!!
They soar gracefully toward the moving truck, but then pass over it.
Woody: Uh, Buzz?! We missed the truck!
Buzz: We're not aiming for the truck!
ANGLE: FAMILY VAN
Buzz and Woody fly right over the van's sun roof and then drop into the car.
INT. FAMILY VAN - CONTINUOUS
Before anyone can notice, Woody and Buzz land in an open box in the back seat right next to Andy.
Andy turns to discover the limp Buzz and Woody lying in the box.
Andy: Hey! Wow!
Mrs. Davis: What? What is it?
Andy: (picking up the toys) Woody! Buzz!
Mrs. Davis: Oh, great, you found them. Where were they?
Andy: Here, in the car!
Mrs. Davis: See? Now, what did I tell you? Right where you left them.
Andy hugs both toys.
CLOSE UP - WOODY AND BUZZ
They give each other a knowing wink.
Christmas
DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. ANDY'S NEW HOUSE - CHRISTMAS MORNING - LIVING ROOM BAY
WINDOW

Through the gently falling snow, the Davis family can be seen around the Christmas tree unwrapping presents.
Andy: Which one can I open first?
Mrs. Davis: Let's let Molly open one.
INT. ANDY'S NEW HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CHRISTMAS TREE
One of the Christmas bulbs moves aside to reveal SARGE.
The plastic green soldier spies on the Davis family with his binoculars. He turns and motions back into the tree.
INT. CHRISTMAS TREE
A baby monitor sits wedged between some branches supported by several green army men. One of the soldiers turns it on.
INT. ANDY'S NEW BEDROOM
The receiving end of the monitor is atop Andy's night stand.
It CRACKLES WITH STATIC.

Sarge: (O.S., over the monitor) Frankincense, this is Myrrh. Come in, Frankincense.
Buzz sits on the edge of Andy's bed while Hamm rests on the nightstand alongside the monitor. They listen intently.
Hamm: (to the room) Hey, heads up everybody! It's showtime.
Woody and the rest of the toys are MINGLING together like a typical office Christmas party.
Rex: Oh! It's time!
The toys all stop and run toward the monitor.
Woody is about to follow when a crook pulls him backwards to reveal BO PEEP
Woody: Whoooooah! Oh! Bo! (rubbing his neck) There's gotta be a less painful way to get my attention.
Bo Peep: Merry Christmas, Sheriff.
She smiles and points her crook upwards to her sheep perched on a shelf dangling mistletoe.
Woody: Say, isn't that mistletoe?
Bo Peep: Mm-hmmmmm.
Bo drops her crook, dips Woody and KISSES him.
The rest of the toys have congregated below the monitor restless with "excitement" not fear.
Rex: (to Slinky) Maybe Andy'll get another dinosaur, like a leaf-eater. That way, I could play the, uh, dominant predator. Ha-ha-ha!
Slinky LAUGHS with Rex.
Buzz: Quiet everyone, quiet!
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Molly's first present is... Mrs. Potato Head. Repeat. A Mrs. Potato Head!
The toys EXCITEDLY CHATTERED.
Hamm: Way to go, Idaho!
Mr. Potato Head: Gee, I better shave.
Potato Head whips off his moustache piece.
Woody climbs up onto the bed and joins Buzz. Lipstick now covers Woody's face.
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) Come in, Frankincense. Andy is now opening his first present --
(STATIC)
Buzz bangs on the side of the monitor. Nothing.
Woody: Buzz. Buzz Lightyear. You are not worried, are you?
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) I can't quite make out -- (STATIC)
Buzz: (defensively) Me? No, no. Pfft. No. No, no, no, no. Mm-mm.
Sarge: (O.S., over monitor) A large box-- It's-- It's-- It'--

(STATIC)
Buzz: Are you?
Woody: (laughing) Now, Buzz, what could Andy possibly get that is worse than you?!
We TRUCK OUT through the window to the EXT. as we HEAR...
Andy: (O.S.) Oh, what is it? What is it?
SFX: BARKING
Andy: (O.S.) Wow! A puppy!
We ZOOM BACK through the window to a CLOSE UP of Buzz and Woody.
Buzz Lightyear and Woody Cowboy: ?!
They look at one another with a half-smile, half-grimace and LAUGH WEAKLY.
FADE OUT.
The End
CREDITS ROLL
SONG: “YOU GOT A FRIEND IN ME (DUET)” plays.
Female Chorus: Ooo, ooo, ooo, ooo
Singer #1: You've got a friend in me.
Singer #2: You've got a friend in me.
When the road looks rough ahead
And you're miles and miles from your nice, warm bed,
Singer #1: You just remember what your old pal said:
Boy, you've got a friend in me.
Singer #2: Yeah, you've got a friend in me.
You've got a friend in me.
Singer #1: You've got a friend in me.
Singer #2: You got troubles,
Singer #1: And I got 'em too.
There isn't anything I wouldn't do for you.
Singer #2: If we stick together, we can see it through.
'Cause you've got a friend in me.
Singer #1: You've got a friend in me.
Some other folks might be a little bit smarter than I am,
Singer #2: Bigger and stronger too.
Singer #1: Maybe..
Singer #2: But none of them will ever love you the way I do.
Both: It's me and you, boy.
Singer #1: And as the years go by,
Singer #2: Our friendship will never die.
Both: You're gonna see it's our destiny...
Singer #1: You've got a friend in me.
Singer #2: You've got a friend in me.
Both: You've got a friend in me.
The credits GOES ON STILL. THE END
